                                Dungeon 3.1

                        Written by John H. Halliday
                        (c)1990,94,95 FrontierWorks
                            All Rights Reserved

                     12-Apr-95 6:48 am (Skyline version)
                    7-June-95 12:14 pm (DLG & CLI version)
                            Serial # SHAREWARE

			     2807 Norton Ave.
			   Lago Vist, TX 78645
			     BBS_512-443-4187

   Dungeon 3.1 is a SHAREWARE program.  This is a fully working release
   version which is intended to be used only on a REGISTERED SkylineII
   BBS (r), DLG Pro V1.0 BBS, or your CLI.  This means that Dungeon 3.1
   CAN NOT be used in ANY OTHER way shape or form, except with my written
   permission.  This program is NOT in the public domain.  If you enjoy
   the program, please read the readme1st file.

   For REGISTERED users of Dungeon 3.0 - I will send you an updated
   disk with Dungeon V3.1, DungeonDraw V1.2, and PRINTED documentation.
   All that you need to do is send me a note either through mail, or on
   the support BBS including your SERIAL # and current address/tel. #, and I will
   mail a package out to you FREE.  I am hoping that by making this program
   DLG and CLI compatible, it will increase its' popularity.  Also, I
   wish to offer my appology for the 2.5 year delay between the release of
   the last version and this one.  I will attempt to continue development
   of Dungeon through V4.0, which I hope to release in December 95'.

   What is Dungeon?
   ----------------
   Dungeon is a 100 level D&D type game where you enter mapped out rooms
   and fight various creatures and accrue treasures.  There are traps and
   secret doors and magic spells, and much more.  This is a game for use
   by any Skyline SYSOP.

   History of the game:
   --------------------
   This Dungeon game is my second AREXX program. After about 11
   revisions (beta), I ended up with a rough draft of Dungeon (V1.0).

   V1.xx series had a simple screen only 3 options for the user.

   V2.xx series took care of this by quadrupling the number of rooms to
   be explored, adding three NEW functions--Cast spell, Drink potion, and
   Help.

   V3.x!!!  My ST:TNG game gave me some ideas.  Most of the features are
   totally new to 2.x users.  Here are some of the MAIN features of the
   3.xx series:

     *- Keys for each level which must be found before entering the next
     *- New help screens -- greatly improve gameplay
     *- Character generation at startup, including alias's
     *- Much greater control over character-game interaction
     *- New fighting routine.
     *- Fully mapped Dungeon (10 full levels)!
     *- Different types of foes
     *- Game-save features
     *- SYSOP-variables, allowing some game controls
     *- Fast game play (at least as fast as the 2.xx series)
     *- Various sorts of traps
     *- Armor classes (currently Invisible to player)
     *- Various types of weapons
     *- Magical spells
     *- Lot's of fun!

   V3.1  After nearly 3 years, 1 marriage, getting my bachelor's degree,
   and moving to Texas, I am continuing work on Dungeon.  This version
   was really intended to fix several bugs, and add a few features.
   It should also work more smoothly and realistically.
   This version includes:

      - 90 new dungeon levels!
      - Doors that open only if you use a spell.
      - Lesser dragons
      - Improved movement values (# turns/move depends on AC & type of
        character)
      - Fixed bugs
      - Mapped starting position - SYSOP can change this now with DDraw12.
      - Lesser/smaller dragons added.
Alph2 - Program would not reset # turns on a new day - fixed!
Alph2 - Eliminated redundant code
Alph2 - Added notes
Alph2 - Cleaned up 1st dungeon levels.  Secret doors work correctly.
Alph2 - Program 'remembers' last character location.
Alph2 - Memory of previous player moves! (this took 2-days -- ughh).
Alph2 - Food now enhances health automatically.
Alph2 - Faster movement due to removal of superfluous screendraws.
Alph3 - Traps are randomly discovered if SEARCH = ON. Avoid traps!
Alph3 - Ending screen is a little more colorful now.
Beta1 - Teleports no longer teleport to themselves more than once.
Beta1 - Scrolls now used in battles with dragons.

Version 4.0 written in C will include:

      - New concept for playing the game
        1. Above ground play
        2. Towns
        4. Addition of bars, shops, rivers, etc...
        5. Interaction with non-PC's
        6. AutomaGically generated maps
      - Multi-player

   Special note:  I'd like to thank D.F. Duck for his help with all
   of my AREXX games, and Dale Frameli for running the finest support
   BBS an author could hope for!
