
            Unofficial troubleshooter for the Amiga version of

                       Ultima VI: The False Prophet

                                   * * *

I really enjoy Origin's Ultima saga, but Amiga conversions of the games
have been somewhat troublesome. Speed wise Ultima VI runs fine on a fast
enough machine with a hard drive, but I ran into some other problems. Here
are the solutions I found.

Janne Siren
MBnet: Janne Siren
Internet: siren@mikrobitti.fi, http://www.mikrobitti.fi/~siren/

Updated: June 1, 1996

                                   * * *

Problem: I have installed the game on hard disk carefully following the
instructions given in the Ultima VI Amiga Reference Guide, but after
creating a character the game still asks me for a PLAYER disk.

Solution: The installation program doesn't install certain files (on hard
disk) that are necessary for saving a game. These files can be found in the
DATA DISK 1 (Disk Two) or PLAYER disk if you have already installed the
game on floppies. The missing files are called OBJB???? (where ???? is four
letters) and OBJLIST. Make a sub-directory called "savegame" to your Ultima
VI directory and move these files to that directory.

Hint: You can also make a backup of these files for restarting the game
easily. When you want to start over, just replace the savegame files with
the backups. One could also use this cheat to have multiple saves.

                                   * * *

Problem: The graphics are distorted beyond recognition.

Solution: The game has a problem with AGA machines, just turn the OCS
emulation on from the Early Startup Control menu. This is done by holding
down both mouse keys when booting and then selecting Original from the
Display Options. You might also have some success with software based AGA
killers.

                                   * * *

Problem: The game exists right after selecting Joyrney Onward (or after
creating a character).

Solution: This probably has something to do with you having an accelerator
(or high-spec Amiga). At least it happened on my Blizzard 1230-IV equipped
Amiga 1200. Disabling the turbo helped (Blizzard can be turned of by
holding "2" down on boot-up). You might also want to try some software
degraders.

                                   * * *

Problem: The game graphics only fill a part of the screen.

Solution: Ultima VI uses a resolution of 320x200 pixels which leaves the
bottom of the screen empty on PAL machines. This is quite common on Amiga
games that support NTSC. If your monitor can handle NTSC, set your
Workbench screenmode to NTSC before starting the game and Ultima will use
an NTSC mode.

                                   * * *

Problem: My problem wasn't solved by this document.

Solution: Why not send me an e-mail to the address above and we'll see what
we can do... Also, do please contact me if you have any additions to this
guide (or maybe Amiga related hints for other Ultima games?).
