                               COMBAT 2000

                     Program (c) Insane Software 1994-5

This text written 6/3/1995

This version is public domain  and  may  not  be  sold  for  profit.  PD
libraries may charge for their distribution costs only.  

WARNING - Use this program at your own risk!

We make no warranties, either expressed or implied, with respect to  the
software described  in  this  document,  its  quality,  performance,  or
fitness for any particular purpose. The entire risk as  to  its  quality
and performance is with the user. Should the  program  prove  defective,
the user assumes the entire cost of all necessary servicing, repair,  or
correction and any incidental or consequential damages. In no event will
we be liable for direct, indirect  or  consequential  damages  resulting
from any defect in the software.


THE PROGRAM

Welcome to Combat 2000, although it isn't really yet. This is,  instead,
a version of the 'classic' mode that will be found therein.  Yes,  there
are still bugs, and I'm still nagging  Andrew,  but  the    game    will
one day  be  completely  re-written  (Yippee)!  For  now,  enjoy    this
version. For two players only at the moment, all  this,  and  much  more
will be addressed  in  the  final  version.  I'm  reluctant  to  release
features yet, as no doubt, someone more talented (or with  more    time)
could nick all our ideas before we were done :)

Main gripes at the moment are a lack of music, dodgy bouncing  (we  know
why this occurs,  and  it  WILL  be  fixed)  and  a  few  missing  sound
effects. Anyway, play with this version conscience free,  and  wait  for
COMBAT 2000.



INSANE SOFTWARE

An ever-changing conglomeration of friends and  acquaintances.  For  the
purposes of this game, and  wherever  mentioned  in  this  text,  Insane
Software is: 
	-Andrew Heap 
	-Jared Quinert

As mentioned earlier, Hairpin II is already  available  as  licenseware,
with (hopefully) an update appearing soon. Forthcoming releases  (in  no
particular order) are:

   -Screech!         (You know what to expect)
   -Combat 2000      (Combat/Scorched Earth cross)
   -Marauder         (Robot combat game)
   -Star Wars        (Working title for space wargame)

BARTERWARE

We're trying to introduce the use-friendly concept of barterware.  Below
is an extract from the readme for our program Screech! Remember  though,
Combat is a freebie (for now).


Extract follows:-

Screech! is barterware. If you're interested in receiving    the    full
version, with many more tracks and a nice management side, then send  us
œ8, US $12, AUS $15 or equivalent goods/service, and we'll   send    you
the complete version of Screech! We'd prefer the cash, but   if    you'd
like to send disks,  games,  BBS  accounts,  Atari    2600/7800    carts
(Xevious would  be  cool),  old  Atari  8-bit  software,  joysticks,  or
anything else you think we could use, then feel free to do so. We    may
also include demos of forthcoming releases and  anything  else  we  deem
interesting. Alternativ- ely, if you are a programmer,  or  involved  in
the production of shareware or PD games then send  us  a  copy  of  your
game. We hope to set up a net- work of amateur game developers and share
our skills around. Eg: We need graphics, and can supply music. We  would
also like to be able to set up a  nice  distribution  network  with  our
fellow developers. It would also be nice to have someone    else    test
our software, and share ideas and suggestions.

End of extract

We like the idea...hope others do too.

Once again, we can be reached at -

Insane Software

79 South Crescent
Northcote
VIC 3070
Australia

(03) 486 3614

Internet E-Mail: wizzo@connexus.apana.org.au

Note: This text file must be distributed with the executable program.


