
				Omega 0.80.2

	    Written by Laurence R. Brothers and Erik Max Francis
			Amiga version by David Kinder


Omega is a complex game of dungeon exploration, similar to games such as
Rogue, NetHack and Angband.

Installation
------------

Omega can make use of two non-standard libraries, neither of which is
required to run. These are:

  iff.library		Needed to load the graphics file. If it is
			not present, graphics cannot be used.

  reqtools.library	If present, it is used for all requesters.

Running Omega
-------------

To start Omega from the Workbench, double click on the icon. A requester
will open to ask if you wish to start a new game or restore a previously
saved one. If "Restore" is selected, a file requester opens with which the
saved game can be selected.

The screen mode which Omega uses is set by the tooltype SCREENMODE in the
icon, which is checked from both Workbench and the shell. To use it, it is
necessary to specify the exact name of the screenmode (case sensitive) as it
appears in screen mode requesters and the preferences program ScreenMode,
e.g.

	SCREENMODE=NTSC:High Res

If this tooltype is not present then the default screen mode is used.

Graphics
--------

The original Unix version of Omega represents the Omega world using
ascii characters to indicate the area around the player, but this Amiga port
can optionally use graphics. These graphics are taken from Lars Haugseth's
excellent Amiga port of Angband. The graphics were originally drawn for the
game CWMMoria by James Larimer, Thomas H. Davies and Torben Kristiansen.
The graphics are stored in the file "Omega.iff", which must be in the same
directory as the Omega program. To disable the graphics, the tooltype

	GRAPHICS=NO

should be added to Omega's icon. This tooltype is also checked if Omega is
started from a shell. Alternatively, Omega will revert to ascii characters
if the graphics file cannot be found.

In-Game Menu
------------

When the game is running a "Project" menu is available, with two options:
"About", which shows a requester with information about Omega; and "Quit",
which immediately exits Omega. If the current game has not be saved it will
be lost.

Contacting the Author
---------------------

This Amiga port of Omega was written by David Kinder, who can be contacted
via email at:

	davidk@monis.co.uk

History
-------

Amiga Release 2

    Fixed miscellaneous odd effects and crashes on some people's
    computers, all caused by a single line of code.

    Added the SCREENMODE tooltype.

Amiga Release 1

    The first release.
