  Take a save game file and use a PD/shareware program such as NewZap or
  FileMaster to patch byte 18 to a non-zero value.  Load your save game,
  and now these cheat options are enabled:
  Arrow Keys   - Move Rapidly over any terrain
  <B>          - Summon Gold Swan
  <R>          - Rescue Princess
  <=>          - Display coordinates
  <F10>        - Location in coordinates
  <F9>         - Increase time by 1 hour
  When you find the turtle, jump on it and start slashing with your weapon.
  The turtle will not be harmed but your bravery will rise.  The best weapon
  in the game is the sword.  The keys to use for different buildings are:
  White - For old castles and manors
  Grey - For the watch tower and buildings in the city of Marheim
  Red - For secret entrances
  Gold - For the maze in Hemsaths tomb and for the inner chambers of King
         Marheim's palace
  Blue - For the sorceresses keep on the Isle of Sorcery
  Green - For normal buildings
  The witch's castle is accessable through the maze of Grimwood forest.
  You must enter the maze from the west and make your way north-east.  A
  cave must also be found.  This should take you to the Sunstone.  The
  Sunstone should be used to kill the witch but this might not work.  You
  should be able to kill the witch with any missile weapon as long as you
  avoid the witch's gaze.  After you kill her, you must get the golden
  lasso in order to ride the Golden Swan.  In the City of Azal, you will
  need the five golden statues.  These statues are located in: The Crystal
  Palace on the Isle of Sorcery, The Battlefield in Grimwood Forest, The
  Castle south-east of Marheim, The Watch Tower, and Hemsath's Tomb.
  If you don't want to go through the hassle of collecting all the
  statuettes:
  Go the the dark citadel
  Stand right up against the force field
  Let yourself starve so that you faint
  When you wake up, you'll be on the other side of the force field
  Sometimes you can accumulate all the treasure you want by going near the
  item, pressing space bar, and then continue hitting 'T'.  You'll receive
  an infinite supply of that treasure.
  Save your position in a dungeon.  Then go through it until you run out of
  keys.  When you restore your game, all the doors will be open and you will
  have a new set of keys.  Also works in caves.
  On the island with the Crystal Castle, press the right mouse button while
  talking to the Sorceress and your luck will go up to 65.  'ASK'ING the
  Sorceress several times will usually boost your luck.
  If running low on Green keys, use a secret entrance for the fort.  It's
  on the left side, almost even with the door.
