
			FRONTIER (ELITE II) Game Info
	     collected by lots of people on comp.sys.amiga.games

	    compiled by Christoph Tietz (Christoph.Tietz@gmd.de)


				April 5, 1994

I   Disclaimer


   I play this game on a PC and have tried to verify as much of the given
   information as possible.
   Information that is marked with "(?)" is untested and may apply to the
   Amiga version only or may be wrong altogether.  (-; Anything else may be
   wrong too ;-).  If you find any mistake, I would be glad to hear from you.
   Parts of the information listed here were not found by me initially, but
   unfortunately I cannot reconstruct who contributed all the bits and
   pieces. Instead I dedicate this collection to the Frontier playing network
   community with many thanks. I hope you don't mind, that I have put your
   contribution together with lots of others and redistributed the whole
   thing without mentioning your name. 
   Enough smalltalk and excuses. Now to the facts:



II  Game Tips


Golden Rule
   Before you do anything that looks only remotely dangerous, SAVE YOUR GAME.
   Do this even if you only want to do something perfectly normal. The game
   is full of bad surprises that have nothing to do with the game itself but
   with bugs and strange crashes. Always keep the last few games, in case a
   saved game is unusable.


Dongles and Other Strange Beasts
   There have been reports of problems with Frontier on an Amiga if a dongle
   occupies the 2nd joystick port. If you cannot control your ship because it
   starts to spin uncontrollably remove the dongle and try again.


Copy Protection
   The copy protection scheme counts headlines as text and ignores the case
   of your input. Page headers and footers and the captions of pictures are
   not counted as text.
  

Ships In System Maps 
   Ships are marked in the system map as little crosses in the color in which
   the ships would appear on the scanner. Your own position is marked with a
   purple dot regardless of the type of your ship and your hyperjump cloud
   will be marked with a blue dot. You will see the blue dot also for the
   hyperjump clouds of ships that you had selected before they jumped out of
   the system.  Sometimes it is even possible to use your cloud analyzer on
   such clouds.  You can not center the map relative to ship marks.


Planet Selection
   A planet or station can only be selected if it is annotated with its name.
   This annotation is only performed when the game assumes that the object is
   clearly visible. The heuristic that is used for this decision sometimes
   fails badly. Therefore some planets can only be selected if the system is
   zoomed and rotated until the observer's position is near the planet. Try it
   with Pluto in Sol [0, 0]. It really is selectable!


Autopilot
   Your autopilot tries to fly to your target in a straight line. If there is
   a planet between you and your target, the autopilot will happily try to
   fly through the planet, crashing you in the process.

   If you don't want to risk crashes because of high gravity or other mishaps
   that could confuse your autopilot you should always land using time
   acceleration at least at level 2. If you don't watch it too closely your
   autopilot definitely performs better.


Docking
   Docking your ship in a space station without causing damage can become a
   quite complicated task for large ships. You have to remember that your
   forward view from a ship like the Panther Clipper is not centered in the
   ship but instead you look out of your forward window that may be high
   above the center axis of your ship. As a result you have to aim not at the
   middle of the docking bay of a station but at a point somewhere in the
   upper half of the back wall of the dock.  One nicely working trick is to
   use the outside view to look at your ship from a point in front of it and
   align your ship such that you look at it from within the station and it
   keeps well clear of the dock walls. In a station you may keep your landing
   gear up to keep your ship as small as possible.


Initial Trading
   As a beginner you will want to make fast cash to be able to buy a better
   ship that brings you to all the wonders of the universe. You can earn your
   money with trading. As a beginner you should choose a trading route where
   there is no risk of being attacked by pirates. Sol and Barnard are two
   such systems. You can carry luxury goods from Sol to Barnard and robots
   back. Sell all of your initial equipment you don't need, to make room for
   merchandise. You won't need missiles, laser or your scanner. As soon as
   you have left Merlin (on Ross 154) you can sell your atmospheric shielding
   too at the next starport, if you avoid planets with atmosphere in the
   future. On the route between Sol and Barnard this will pose no problem,
   because there are enough space stations in either system. Be sure to check
   the bulletin board when you bring robots to Sol. Very often you can get a
   better price there than on the stock market.

   You cannot afford Luxury Goods or Computers in the very beginning. Carry
   Fruit and Vegetables to Barnard instead until you have enough cash to
   switch to more profitable goods. Buy a bigger ship as soon as you have
   enough money to pay it AND enough cash to buy some initial cargo for your
   new ship too.

   Another good route in imperial space has been reported to be Facece to
   Vequess and back. You can perform military missions on one way and carry
   slaves back, if you don't mind the moral implications.


Crew Members
   Every day at midnight the bulletin board is updated and may show new
   potential crew members.
   It is a very bad idea to fire someone of your crew. Your reputation will
   suffer badly. If you repeat this several times, it will take you a very
   long time (sometimes years!) to hire crew members again.


Passengers
   Passengers want to be delivered to their destination in one month or less.
   If they get impatient, they will tell you so, leave at the next starport
   and refuse to pay. The main problem is, that your reputation will suffer
   badly and future passengers may even refuse to be transported by you. You
   can persuade them sometimes by asking several times. You should be careful
   with passengers that tell you, that they owe someone money. They will most
   probably refuse to pay at the destination port.  For some systems you need
   a permit to enter. The only way to get a permit is to transport a
   passenger or parcel to such a system. The people that give you military
   missions assume that you already have a permit.


Charity
   If you give money to charity, you will get a better reputation and people
   will trust you more. This means that you can get 10% more money for
   deliveries, get all or part of the money in advance and more people will
   want to work for you (?). Your reputation will also grow if you succeed
   with passenger transports without receiving too much damage to your ship.
   Therefore giving away your money is not really necessary if your
   reputation is not too bad for passengers to accept you carrying them.
  

Dumping Radioactives
   One way to get rid of the radioactive waste from military drives is to
   dump it into space right out of your cargo bay. If you are in a system
   where a strong police force is watching, this can get you in trouble even
   if you dump directly after your jump into the system. In such systems you
   should simply sell your waste or (if radioactives are illegal) find a
   reliable merchant on the black market who takes it back.
  
   You can have loads of fun if you try a few highly illegal dumping
   places. A space port is a very nice place to dump your waste on. Some
   people prefer to dump their radioactives into the still open landing bay
   of an underground spaceport. You can even fling your waste into a long
   range cruiser that waits outside of some space stations. Of course you can
   do the same with mines for the thrill of finally seeing a mine hit
   something!
  
   There seem to exist systems where you can get real money for your
   radioactives. Look out for systems in the state of civil war. Sometimes
   you can sell your radioactives there on the black market.
  

Countryside Landing
     Lower your speed and raise your nose until you fall with approx. 3 m/s.
   When you are down to 10-15 m, cut your speed to 0 and align your nose with
   the horizon. Don't forget to lower you landing gear!

  
Mining
   Select a system with little or no registered settlers, look for an unnamed
   planet above 0 degrees and below 200 degrees without a starport or station
   and unload your MB4. Wait a few months and land near your mining
   equipment. Pick it up and leave. If you try again at the same place you
   will find less and the third time you will find nothing. This is not
   dependent on the time you let your machine work or the amount of minerals
   the machine has produced. Only the number of trials counts.
  
   A builtin camera (you get it for your first reconnaissance mission) does
   not prevent you from using the mining machines. Just use the camera icon
   in the near of the mining machine. Frontier will know, that you don't want
   to take pictures.

  
Fuel Scoop from a Gas Giant
   Autopilot to the target, aim at the horizon and set your speed to 15,000
   km/h. Use time acceleration and decelerate to keep the target tunnel
   frames coming at constant speed; when the atmosphere gets visible, aim for
   the middle and reduce your speed to 4000 km/h, go back to normal time. The
   fuel scoop will first fill up the cargo space and then the internal tanks.

  
Fighting
   There seem to exist a lot of misunderstandings with respect to fighting.
   The first one is, that your movement vector has to point to your enemy to
   move towards him. This is not true. Your movement vector is shown as the
   vector of your movement with respect to the currently selected reference
   mass. This is totally insignificant for a fight, because there only the
   relative velocities of the fighting ships count. This also means, that you
   don't have to decelerate for a fight. Your attacker will have a similar
   velocity vector as you or he wouldn't stay in your vicinity for long.

   Important are the tiny differences in your movement vectors that result in
   movements of your ships relative to each other. If you both fly parallel
   with 10,000 m/s in the same direction and accelerate towards each other,
   this will have the same effect as when you don't move at all and
   accelerate towards each other. What counts is the resulting relative
   movement. To make a long story short: Simply ignore your displayed
   velocity during a fight. It doesn't matter at all!

   What does count is your velocity relative to the attacking ships. You
   cannot measure it directly, but you can select an attacking ship and watch
   the distance change to get an estimate of your velocity. This is the only
   velocity information that helps you to maneuver during a fight.

   * Always switch your engines off while fighting and use mouse direction
     control and acceleration/deceleration buttons for maneuvering.
   * Ignore the indication of your velocity vector. It is insignificant for a
     fight.
   * Be careful not to shoot yourself with your own turret mounted lasers.
   * If you attack a ship with your front laser, aim 5 deg past it,
     accelerate until near, decelerate and follow accelerating while it flies
     by. Shoot it from behind.
   * You can shoot incoming missiles: evade with full thrusters, u-turn,
     select with annotation (to make the missile visible) and shoot.

   I have developed a standard sequence for fighting that uses a little
   cheating to compensate for the very poor HUD and the bad interface to the
   functions you need during a fight:

   * When the attack warning comes up, stop time.
   * Switch off your engines.
   * Select the outside view of your ship and zoom out as far as possible.
   * Switch on the id labels to identify the attacker.
   * Move the outside view until the attacker rotates into your view.
   * Select the attacker and activate your radar scanner to get type and
     damage info.
   * Remember the position of the attacker on your scanner.
   * Switch back to the front view.
   * Restart time.
   * If you use your front laser, rotate your ship to face the attacker and
     use your engines to accelerate at the same time to evade the initial
     attack.
   * Perform any maneuvers necessary and shoot to get rid of the attacker.
   * Select the system map and reselect your initial target.

   Some players find it sufficient to use the id labels, so they don't have
   to deselect the original flight target and select the attacker. I found
   the distance information the selection provides very helpful
   though. Especially when I have to use a powerful laser economically
   because it can be fired only a limited time until it overheats and needs
   time for cooling.


Military Missions
   Be careful not to accept military missions that clearly cannot be finished
   in time. You will have to look at the destination starsystem, estimate
   your travelling time through hyperspace and the time you need in the
   target system to reach your destination. A good distance estimate is to
   add 10 AU to the orbital distance of your destination. If your destination
   is orbiting another planet use the orbital distance of this planet instead
   and add the orbital distance of your destination to the result.

   If you don't get missions from your local military agent, don't despair.
   Often it is sufficient to change the starport in the same system to get
   missions. If all else fails and you don't want to change the base for your
   military career, simply make a small hyperspace jump out of the system and
   back. In the mean time your military agent may have changed his mind. If
   he still has nothing to do for you you should ask yourself a few
   questions.  Would you give someone like you military missions? For whom
   have you worked in the past? Are you really trustworthy? See, you know the
   reason!


Assassination

   * Always save the game before accepting a contract.
   * Don't arrive in your target system too early. If the police has enough
     time to investigate, the victim will be warned. This makes it very
     difficult to finish a contract in systems like 61 Cygni [-1, 1] or
     Omicron Eridani [2, 0] where you have to travel 40 AU or more to the
     next station. Don't even think about a mission for Alpha Centauri [0, 0]
     or Cegreth [-1, -3]. Such missions can only be accomplished if you
     cheat. For details see the Autopilot Break below. It seems to be ok. to
     arrive at the target system about one week before contract time.
   * Don't wait too long in front of the target station or port, the victim
     may get frightened and refuse to start. 15 minutes before contract time
     seems ok.
     There seems to be a way to force victims out of a station if they refuse
     to start. If you attack the station, the launch bay must be cleared for
     the police vipers. If your victim is in the station, he/she will be in
     the launch bay and get forced to start as soon as you attack the
     station. 
   * Don't wait directly in front of the station, the victim may run into
     you.
   * Don't wait directly above a star port. If the launch bay doesn't close
     after your start, your victim cannot start.
   * You should never try to watch the take off of your victim in accelerated
     time. In most cases your victim will sneak past you while you are
     dreaming your time away and be gone before you even know it.
   * Don't attack too close to a star port or station, the victim may try to
     land again.
   * If you have to attack near a star port, don't use missiles too early. If
     you do, your victim might try to evade the missile and crash in the
     process.  If your victim kills himself, you failed.
   * You can use missiles to prevent the victim from hyperjumping while you
     attack. If you fire a missile before you use your lasers, the local
     authorities will charge you only 600 credits for illegal weapon usage.
     Otherwise you will get fined 10,000 credits for piracy and murder.
     One very nice attack method based on this trick is to wait at some
     planet far from your destination until you can spot your victim on the
     system map. As soon as it appears, target it and fire a missile. This is
     already sufficient to prevent your victim from hyperjumping and you can
     approach now and do what you came for.
   * If the victim hyperjumps, use a cloud analyzer and simply follow. Select
     the arrival cloud and wait until the victim arrives or you can be sure
     it made a misjump. If you are not fast enough to overtake your victim on
     the direct route, you can always use a wormhole route that is nearly
     always faster. A drawback of the wormhole route is, that your entry
     point of the target system may be far away from the entry point of your
     victim.
   * If you are too far from your victim when he or she starts, use the
     system map and watch for a ship mark on the map that belongs to your
     victim. Select it and proceed as usual. You can verify your selection
     via communication. Don't call, just verify the registration number.
   * If you have more than one assassination on your list, collect the money
     for the first one before you try the next. Your employer seems to
     actively look for you to pay you and spreads rumors of your profession
     in the process. This obviously warns other victims.

   With these points in mind I have succeded with every contract (civil or
   military) that I have accepted so far. In every case a victim didn't show
   up I could find a reason from the list above and succeeded in the next
   trial.
   On the other hand there have been reported lots of problems with victims
   not showing up or refusing to land at the port of destination. Some of
   these problems seem to stay even if you use every trick in the book. In
   such a case your only chance is to reload a saved game from the time
   before you accepted the contract.


Reconnaissance Missions
   One problem with such missions is, to find your target at all. It should
   work if you approach the planet until it nearly fills your screen. If the
   military base is visible, you should see it as a grey pixel that can be
   selected. If you don't see it, fly to the back of the planet or simply
   wait a few hours (in accelerated time) until the planet rotates the base
   into your view. The maximum distance to take pictures from is about 80 km.
   You get excellent pictures if you fly below 10 km. One nicely working
   method for an approach is:

   * Use autopilot and maximum time acceleration until you arrive in the
     "vicinity of the planet".
   * Use time acceleration 3-4 and 50,000 km/h to fly to 7000-8000 km
     distance.
   * Orbit the planet and lock on the target when it is at the horizon.
   * Save the game.
   * Aim a little below the horizon and descend to 1000-3000 m.

     On planets with high gravity this is the most difficult part. I always
     save a game before actually reaching the planet so I can try different
     routes to the target station. The problem on planets with high gravity
     is, that you don't get height information until you cannot decelerate
     anymore in time to avoid a crash. You have to approach such planets very
     carefully. Another problem is, that you can control you descent only via
     the velocity readings because you cannot see your actual velocity vector
     or the target tunnel with your nose up high enough to make a controlled
     descent to your target. You can aim at your target with your nose up, if
     you use the outside view.
   * Continue towards your target with 10,000 km/h and time acceleration 2
     until your distance is down to 200 km.
   * Decelerate to 5,000 km/h and switch off time acceleration.
   * From a distance of 80 km downwards you can take pictures. I usually fly
     between the towers or a small distance above. After you have taken the
     pictures, accelerate with full power and make your escape.
   * After having taken my pictures I often pick a few interesting enemies
     and practice my fighting skills before jumping out of the system.

   A few times I managed to rough land between the buildings of a target
   station. The stations don't seem to have a starport, but only a hangar out
   of which the interceptors start. It is interesting to watch them
   materialize in front of this hangar (and crash shortly afterwards).
   Reconnaissance missions to imperial stations are most difficult, because
   you are attacked by Imperial Couriers with 20 MW lasers. For my Asp with
   up to 10 shields this means that you are history with only one direct
   hit. If you fly very low between the buildings of a target station you
   must be extremely careful, not to be rammed by an enemy ship that suddenly
   appears directly in front of you.


Bombing Missions
   If you have succeeded with reconnaissance missions and shot a lot of
   excellent pictures you will find bombing missions very boring. You can
   fire your nuclear missile from 500 km distance or even more without
   adverse effects if the station lies within your line of sight. The crater
   that replaces the station after a successful attack is no hole in the
   ground. It hovers above the planet just where the station used to be. If
   you rough land at the position of the station you land actually below the
   crater. Very strange...


Ratings
   If you want to improve your combat rating fast, there is one simple trick.
   Buy a Panther Clipper and equip it with about 300 shield generators. It is
   nearly invincible now. Select a system with lots of pirates. Anarchies are
   very nice and some dictatorships also work very well. Jump into the system
   and switch off your engines. Accelerate time to the maximum and wait for
   the pirates to come. When they arrive, simply wait. They will crash into
   you and you will get the bonus for destroying them. Only one ship can get
   dangerous to you and this is the Imperial Courier which is very often
   equipped with a 20 MW laser. Fight this one and do it carefully because
   once this gun starts to hit you, your shields will degrade very fast and
   you don't have the engine power to evade quickly.

   After you have cleaned up the system, jump to a neighbor system and back
   or still better, simply jump to another anarchy. Repeat until you run out
   of fuel, are bored too much or have advanced to ELITE after 6000 destroyed
   ships.

   As soon as you get reconnaissance missions from the military, you can
   advance even faster.  Pick a mission to a station on a planet with low
   gravity and fly towards it. From approximately 500 km downward you can
   watch interceptors start continuously. All you have to do is to reduce
   your velocity or switch off your engines and wait until they start
   crashing into you. In the near of imperial stations it is not as easy,
   because you will have to actively fight the attacking Imperial Couriers
   that would cut you into pieces otherwise. They are quite easy to destroy,
   if you adapt your course until they approach you in a straight line. Then
   you can activate the autopilot and fire as soon as they are in range. As
   long as you move to follow one of the Imperial Couriers the others are
   usually too clumsy to hit you hard enough to cause damage. Other ships can
   safely be ignored. They will crash into you from time to time or reduce
   your shields a few percent if they hit you with their lasers. Keep well
   above the planet to avoid crash landings.

   You can accelerate all this still further if you use an energy bomb to wipe
   out a lot of enemies with one keypress. This works most satisfactory if you
   are surrounded by lots of police vipers after some little disagreements
   with the local authorities.

  
Sling shot
   Aim just past a large gas giant and get fast enough (700 km/s for
   Jupiter). Switch off your engines and watch. Speed and distance are
   critical. You will have to practice a bit to get the feeling.

  
Sightseeing
   You can fly through all the domes on planets without a breathable
   atmosphere and land between the buildings. If you do this for the
   transparent domes at Ross 154 you will find in one dome administration
   buildings of Vega Line, Sirius Corporation and other trading houses and in
   the second dome the usual combination of concrete blocks and green patches
   in between with scattered brick houses. It is definitely fun to fly
   between the buildings and look at your surroundings. Agriculture domes are
   a bit boring, because they contain nothing more than lots of green balls
   at ground level.
   Domes that are not tranparent, can be entered too but contain absolutely
   nothing. It is interesting, that they are no obstacle for you though. At
   least they are good for some very strange graphical effects if you land in
   one of these domes and use your outside view to look at your surroundings.
  
   In every major city with more than the space port and a little industry you
   can find little churches with working clocks. The cities are structured as
   large blocks of ugly concrete buildings and patches of green between them
   with scattered brick houses and every now and then a little church. Try to
   rough land in the vicinity of such a church and watch the clock on the
   church steeple. Use time acceleration for better effect. If you are close
   enough you can even read the roman numbers on the clock face. The buildings
   give you an interesting impression of the size of your ship. A Cobra MK III
   looks huge compared with this tiny little church. And have you ever seen a
   huge space ship standing in the graveyard behind a church? It looks
   definitely strange.
  
   At some time in the future I will look for one of the bridges you can see in
   the intro sequence of the game. This will be my last action before voluntary
   retirement. A kind soul already gave me the tip to look in the near of New
   San Francisco on Earth, Sol [0, 0]. Do you really want me to retire?

  
Other Galaxies
   If you use the galactic view and zoom out of the galaxy you can see lots
   of other galaxies that are arranged in a regular grid. These galaxies are
   all copies of your home galaxy, so it is really not worth the effort to
   try and find wormhols to distant galaxies. There is only one galaxy and a
   lot of mirror images.


Thargoids
   A lot of oldtimers from the era of the original Elite game still remember
   the menace of the Thargoids and miss them in Frontier. Nobody has seen a
   Thargoid in Frontier yet but in an interview David Braben shall have told
   that there is a single Thargoid ship in a system far out in the galaxy. I
   personally think this is only a trick to keep us playing Frontier until
   add-ons appear. But who knows?
  
   If you fly bombing missions to federal bases you can sometimes see two big
   violet octagonal ships that look just like the good old Thargoid ships but
   they are not disturbed by your approach. Perhaps the Thargoids sleep for a
   few hundred years after the exhausting fight with mankind?



III   Bugs / Features


Enemies One At a Time
   Maximum time acceleration will separate groups of ships to get them in
   line, waiting for you.


Perfect Autopilot
   Your autopilot always succeeds if you use maximum time acceleration.


Planet Landing Without Fuel
   While you still have fuel, use the autopilot to align with your target
   planet, switch to maximum time acceleration and wait for the landing
   sequence. Switch back to maximum time acceleration and you are save.


Zero Time Shooting from Gun Turrets
   If an attacker approaches, get him in sight of a laser turret, stop time,
   select the attacker, aim the laser and test fire (you see the blue or the
   explosion light effect if you hit). Keep firing while releasing the time
   stop. Repeat if necessary.


Missile Fire While Docked
   You can fire missiles even from within a space station. This might help in
   case of the passenger/no crew problem described in the Bugs / Bugs
   section.


Certain Missile Hit
   Switch to maximum time acceleration after firing the missile. Your missile
   will hit even if you use a nuclear missile and/or have 900 km distance to
   your target.


Selling Ship With Passenger
   If you sell a ship with passenger on board you get the money and keep the
   ship (and the passenger). This bug seems to be fixed in the 1.05 version
   of the game for the Amiga and in the American PC version.


Engine Upgrade for Imp Courier or Imp Trader
   The only way to get an upgrade for the non-removable engine in an Imperial
   Courier or an Imperial Trader seems to be to let it fail due to
   maintenance neglection and then put in a new engine. The new engine will
   be fixed just as the original drive. To let time pass in a controlled way
   select a route between two star systems an perform lots of jumps. If you
   select Barnard <-> Sol, you can sell all your equipment except for the
   autopilot and load your ship with fuel for the jumps. After 10 or 11
   months you should stop jumping around to avoid a misjump. The few
   remaining days you can simply wait outside a station until your drive
   falls off.


Autopilot Break
   You can activate the autopilot for immediate deceleration from arbitrary
   high velocities in the vicinity of your selected target, if you use
   maximum time acceleration.


Crash Avoidance
   Assume you have to perform a mission on some planet, reached it and find
   out that you are too fast to be able to decelerate in time to avoid a
   crash landing. What can you do? The correct way is to watch the crash,
   reload a previously saved game and try again. The Frontier way is to use
   time acceleration to avoid the crash. Simply switch to maximum time
   acceleration just before the crash. You will make a big jump through the
   planet and be safe at some distance at the other side.
 
   This is not really a bug but more or less a consequence of the
   implementation of time acceleration. Collisions are detected if your ship
   collides with an object at a given time frame of the simulation. When you
   accelerate time these time frames are farther apart and so are your
   positions in space if you are moving. If your position at one time frame
   is above a planet and at the next time frame on the other side of the
   planet Frontier will not detect the collision that should have happened in
   between.

 
Fast Ascent to ELITE
   You can use the properties of time acceleration to acsend to ELITE status
   very fast, once you get foto or bombing missions. Just buy a Panther with
   lots of shields, get yourself an imperial foto or bombing mission and stop
   about 10 km above the target station. Next destroy all ships in your
   near. You can use your turrets and the zero time shooting feature to
   achieve this. Now you can select the first level of time acceleration. The
   ships that now start from the station fly directly into your shields and
   are destroyed. The only thing you have to watch very carefully is your
   height above the planet. You can expect a `right on commander' message
   every 7 to 10 minutes. These messages reset time acceleration, so you will
   have to destroy all ships in your near again and select time acceleration
   until the next message comes up. After a few hours of work you will have
   advanced to ELITE status.
   You can not use higher time acceleration levels because then the destroyed
   interceptors are not counted.


Negotiations With The Police
   If you have been caught selling or buying illegal goods or having them on
   board, the police will fine you. If the officer is not corrupt, you can
   always lower your fine to the original amount if you claim you "haven't
   done it".



IV    Bugs / Bugs

   Most of the bugs can be circumvented in one or another way. The only bug
   that really annoyed me is the crash that happens after you have unloaded a
   mining machine and leave the system (PC only). This bug makes the mining
   part of the game unplayable and should have been found if the game had
   been beta tested at all. The many program confusions and crashes during
   heavy fights are a nuisance that can only be partially avoided with
   frequent game saving.

   * The german translation is a complete mess. Most of the time it gives you
     crippled nonsense texts and hides important information in a ruined
     screen layout. Game and manuals are full of spelling errors and
     sometimes you have to translate text back to English to be able to
     understand it at all.

   * The protection scheme sometimes gets confused and asks for the first
     letter of e. g. page 8238,line 27764, word 29263.

   * The attack and missile warnings and the "photograph taken" message stay
     on the screen much too long, hiding vital scanner information. In case
     of an attack warning you can stop time as soon as the warning is given,
     select the attacker and start normal time again. The warning is
     sometimes repeated, but then you already have some hints about the
     position of the attacker.

   * In some systems (mostly large systems with more than one sun, e. g.
     Cegreeth [-1, -3]) the reference mass selection is broken and will not
     switch to the nearest planet or station. In some cases it is sufficient
     to avoid the autopilot and fly by hand. In some systems even this does
     not work (because of discretization problems if the reference mass is
     too far away?) and the target will jump around wildly. Sometimes it
     helps not to use maximum time acceleration or fly by hand. If this does
     not help either: 

     1. Avoid such systems.
     2. If you absolutely have to dock or land in such a system use the
        autopilot to accelerate under maximum time acceleration, switch off
        your engines until you are 1-2 AU from your target and reactivate
        autopilot (still under maximum time acceleration) to decelerate and
        teleport to your target.
     3. If 2. fails, try again from another angle.

     Reconnaissance missions to such systems are very difficult, because you
     cannot use the teleport-and-decelerate trick.  Furthermore the drawing
     of the target planet gets totally inconsistent with the drawing of the
     station to be filmed, resulting in "flying" stations that seem to be
     located above the planet and other strange effects that make navigation
     by hand a matter of pure luck. I got such missions to
     Micanex C,Da [3, -4] and Hoethan A,B3b [3, -5].

   * Bombing missions for systems like Candaess [2, -4] lead to problems
     too. You cannot hit the flying station above Candaess A,B1b because the
     nuclear missile seems to have a fixed velocity between 15,000 and 25,000
     km/h. Because the gravitation reference is never switched to the planet,
     you have to adjust your velocity relative to Candaess C,D. In my case I
     had to select around 28,000 km/h to be able to approach the station at
     all. Whenever I fired my missile it somehow decelerated and never
     reached the station. The only trick that worked was to fire the missile
     from a distance around 900 km and use the missile-hit feature/bug to
     destroy the station. You can do this only from a great distance because
     you are unable to switch to full time acceleration if the interceptors
     are near you.

   * In systems with a central supergiant, the simulation of this sun is
     broken. In the Betelgeuse system [59, 14] I got no gravitational effect
     of the central sun and could fly right through it.  The displayed disk
     sometimes transformed into a rotating rectangle (e. g. at 1.39 AU
     distance) and sometimes vanished completely (e. g. at 0.8 AU distance).
     The supergiant was never selected as reference mass.

   * If you are near a planet that was not selected as reference mass (see
     above), you can watch the same effects for this planet as have been
     described for supergiants.

   * Sometimes the scanner may fail without damage report.  All systems seem
     to be ok., but the scanner doesn't show the attacking ships. It has been
     reported that you can fly through these ghost ships without damaging
     them or you. This seems to happen mostly in the near of the famous
     "flying" stations above planets that have not been selected as reference
     mass. The attacking ships also fire at you but seem to be unable to hit.

   * Be careful not to accept delivery missions to systems without bases or
     spacestations. You might not be able to deliver.

   * You sometimes get reconnaissance or bombing missions from the military
     that are impossible to accomplish, because there is no planet in the
     denoted system. These missions are cancelled as soon as you select them
     but they stay in the mission list.

   * If you are stuck in an underground base but have enough fuel and your
     engines are ok., there is no safe way to start but you can try out a few
     alternatives that have been reported to work in some cases:

     1. Use maximum time acceleration just after you have got launch
        permission. When you get the message that your launch time expired,
        switch to maximum time acceleration again.
     2. Build up a little motion, pull up your landing gear and use maximum
        time acceleration to warp through the wall.
     3. Buy lots of shields and fly through the wall.
     4. Perform takeoff as if all were normal (up gear, increase throttle,
        pull up nose) this might result in your ship starting normally.

     For some of these methods a few retries might help (save the game before
     you try anything!). If nothing else helps, select a target for a
     hyperjump and force a misjump via ALT + F8.

   * Some versions of the game for the Amiga don't allow you to jump into the
     van Maanens [0, 1] system. Neighbor systems are reachable without
     problem, the star map shows the system as reachable but you cannot
     trigger the hyperjump to van Maanens.
 
   * On planets with a breathable atmosphere you are sometimes cleared for
     landing on pads that are already occupied by other ships that seem to
     have landed far from their destination pad.
 
   * Mountains are sometimes placed directly on the landing pads of a
     starport on planets with a breathable atmosphere.
 
   * Sometimes a starport is reported to be busy even if there are free
     landing pads and no incoming ship exists that may have been assigned to
     the pad.
 
   * If you do not have enough crew and a fugitive passenger on board,
     someone might attack you from outside a station, preventing time
     acceleration to wait for enough crew and (through the passenger) also
     the selling of your ship. The only way to solve this dilemma seems to be
     to use the missile bug to shoot the attacker from inside the station (?).

   * The autorefuel system may magically empty your internal tanks if you try
     to fill them by hand. I had this effect in a Panther Clipper once even
     without the autorefuel system.

   * When a passenger gets impatient waiting to be delivered and leaves at
     the next starport, you get cabins that are falsely reported occupied,
     preventing you from selling your ship or using the cabin again. The only
     way out of this situation seems to be to buy an escape capsule and use
     it at the next opportunity. You will lose your ship but you can at least
     buy a new one.

   * If you have more than one MB4 mining machine, you must always deal with
     the last one on your list first. If you by accident destroy or even sell
     another one first, the game crashes (?).

   * Do not leave a system with mining gear left behind. The game will crash.
     This seems to be a problem that appears only in the PC version. As in
     the missile fire bug on the Panther this is a bug in the EMS handling
     that hits you whenever you hyperjump.

   * If, as a result of your asteroid mining operation, many objects appear
     in your neighborhood, the game may crash (?).

   * You have not fulfilled a killing contract if your victim crashes.

   * If you fly towards the horizon of a planet, strange graphical effects
     may happen, showing pie slices of the planet flashing everywhere. Also
     the horizon may jump wildly up and down.

   * The same effect happens if you are in the midst of a fight at the right
     height above a planet.  Your enemies will wildly jump around making them
     impossible to hit. Interesting enough they don't seem to have the same
     problems.

   * You can fly through mountains, transparent domes, buildings and the
     walls of spaceports.

   * On some star ports ships of contract targets seem to be unable to start
     without crash. This happens preferably on planets with gravity
     comparable to earth gravity or higher. Example: Lion Transport in
     Manchester City on Matthews World in Behoqu [2, -4]. The only workaround
     I have found is to avoid contracts to such targets.

   * The height calculations are broken on some planets, e. g. on Hoopers
     World in 82 Eridani, where I got a distance reading of 0.65 km for a
     target that was at the starport (not yet started!) and my height was
     shown as 2345 meters. Another example is Mitterand's World in
     Liabeze [2, -4]. 

   * For the upper gun turret on the Tiger Trader at elevation angles above
     50 deg, 5 MW beams fill the whole lower screen or strange crossing beams
     are shown, hiding possible targets.

   * Missiles that are fired from a Panther Clipper crash immediately without
     hitting anything except the own ship. This makes many bombing missions
     impossible to accomplish with a Panther. The bug only appears after
     hyperspace jumps (EMS access on the PC) and you can avoid it if you dock
     at a station or land at a starport before you try to fire a missile. You
     can shorten the extra time you need for this if you use the Autopilot
     Break to reach the point of your intermediate landing as early as
     possible. This makes bombing missions to systems with spaceports
     possible but still leaves a lot of impossible cases.
  
   * The trajectory drawing for planets or stations shown in the system map
     sometimes gets confused and draws straight lines from one point of the
     trajectory to the screen border.

   * A jump into the Beta Lyrae system [-146, 85] crashes the game.

   * The attempt to get system info for the Andolqu system [-76, 29] crashes
     the game.

   * If you select system info for an unexplored system, you get the info for
     the last selected explored system.

   * If you select population info for an unexplored system, the game may
     crash.

   * Sometimes you may get a starport reported to be located on a sun.  While
     being docked at Gilmour Orbiter in Tau Ceti, system info showed a
     starport on the sun Exbephi B [-1225, -853].  The starport vanished when
     I jumped into the system.  Also a population of 100,000 to 1 Million was
     reported for Ethfala [-2174, -879] which is a binary system without
     planets!

   * If you recenter the star map to your position you will still get the
     system info of the system you looked at before recentering until you
     have moved the cursor away from your current system and back.

   * Sometimes a selected star is not surrounded with the green circle at the
     position of the star but at the wrong end of the pin which shows the
     system's height with respect to the galactic ecliptic.

   * The ships section of the documentation contains at least 19 errors.

   * The masses of Panther, Kestrel and Hawk do not add up to the total mass
     of 1775t, 20t and 18t respectively.

   * The reverse thrusters of the Eagle MkII are way too weak to be meant
     this way. The available 4g should probably be 14g.

   * If you switch between the status screens of your display, your ship may
     get drawn erroneously on the contract list page.

   * In the repair section of the shipyard, hull damage is not measured
     relative to the actual hull weight and can exceed the actual hull weight
     by a large amount.

   * After a heavy fight the repair section of the shipyard may get confused.
     I once got as a damage report the message of the police officer that
     arrests you if you haven't paid your fines. The repair costs were 26315
     credits.

   * Another effect in a similar situation produced damage reports for all my
     thrusters that kept reappearing at each entry of the repair screen even
     after repair. Save and restore of the game didn't help. I had to return
     to a saved game from before the fight.

     The effect can be reproduced if you buy a new ship and immediately buy a
     new drive for it.  If you now enter the repair screen, all your
     thrusters are reported to be damaged. You can try to repair them with
     very strange effects that cause repaired thrusters to get damaged from
     the repair of other thrusters. If you have succeeded with the repair and
     no thruster is reported damaged anymore, you will get the old damage
     reports again the next time you enter the repair screen.

     The effect can be ignored and will vanish after you have refueled and
     taken off to the next starport.

   * You can get game crashes during a fight. A few times I got strange beeps
     from the speaker in my PC that got lower and lower until the game froze.
     The exect situation was a fight where I was receiving damage by an enemy
     laser when he was hit by my front laser simultaneously.

   * The ejection system may be triggered if you try to rough land with a
     large ship (?).

   * If you crash during a failed attempt to rough land, the game may crash
     with a memory exception.

   * The system map allows centering on planets only if the planet is
     annotated with its name.  The annotation sometimes happens only shortly
     before the planet vanishes from the screen.  For some planets it is very
     difficult to find a rotation/zooming combination that works, for some
     planets like Phiagre A,B2 [1, -3] I have not yet found a setting that
     makes the planet selectable.

   * When you have docked at a station using maximum time acceleration, the
     system map still shows your position outside the station.

   * If you hyperjump while traffic control is warning you you will get a
     final warning message and a fine from the star system you jump into.

   * In early versions of the game for the Amiga there is a bug that may
     confuse the bulletin board that then shows parts of the stockmarket
     section. One trick to avoid this problem is to always return to the top
     of the bulletin board before leaving it. If the damage is done, you can
     accelerate time to wait until midnight. The bulletin board will then be
     reset and corrected.

   * The manual states that the game is completely playable via keyboard, but
     I have not found an equivalent to a right mouse click on the keyboard.
     Therefore rotation control for the system and sector maps seems to be
     dependent on the mouse.

   * A mouse click that misses a function icon or the scanner display in the
     lower part of the screen deselects the current target. As a consequence
     you often have to reselect your target only because you missed some icon
     by a small amount.

   * Released mouse keys sometimes keep autorepeating.

   * The joystick cannot be calibrated and is way too imprecise (even with a
     high quality joystick) on a 40MHz 386 PC.



V    Hacking and Cheating

   If you don't want to spoil your game completely, please ignore this
   section!
  
Executables
 
   FRONTIER.EXE and the .OVR files of the PC version have been packed with an
   LZEXE compatible packer. You can safely unpack them, they will run without
   problems afterwards. The advantage of unpacking your executables is that
   you can use your favourite byte editor to look for strings in the game and
   find out what you can expect in your future gameplay. It also should speed
   up the startup time of your game significantly.
 
Save Files
 
   Saved games are not portable between the Amiga and the PC versions of the
   game. They seem to be compressed in the PC version but the compressor
   program is not yet known.
 
   There are some hack sheets floating around for the Amiga version but I
   will not include them here because I simply don't like this kind of
   cheats. I think it is bad enough to exploit the bugs in the game for your
   gameplay.  If you really want to cheat badly, write your own game or find
   out the cheats for yourself!
 


VI   Wish List


   * If the system map would follow the events outside, you could watch your
     progress in the map without having to switch repeatedly between main
     view and map.

   * It should be possible to center the system map relative to a displayed
     ship.

   * There should be a possibility to fast zoom out of the system map just
     enough to make your ship or the next planet visible.

   * It would be nice to have a stack of autopilot targets: select your
     flight target, push it and select a target for a fight, return to your
     flight target...

   * If you don't use the autopilot, it is very difficult to land on planets
     with high gravity, because you have no easy way to estimate your current
     position relative to the planet without deselecting your target. It
     would be nice to have a switchable height meter that gives you readings
     all the time (not only from 50.000 m downwards) in addition to your
     information about the target distance. Also some velocity information
     like rate of descent and velocity with respect to the planet surface
     would be extremely helpful. Why not switch to a HUD that contains this
     information in the near of a planet, if your autopilot is not activated?



VII   Flight Physics


      1 AU = 1.496 x 10^11 m      (astronomical unit)
      1 g  =          9.81 m/s^2  (gravitational acceleration on earth)
      1 h  =         3,600 s      (hour)
      1 d  =        86,400 s      (day)


VII-A   Equations for Free Fall

   With velocity v [m/s], acceleration a [m/s^2], distance d [m] and time
   t [s] we get:

      v = a t = sqrt(2 a d);    d = 1/2 a t^2;    t = v/a = sqrt(2 d/a) (1)


VII-B   Navigation Equations

   For the distance d travelled with initial acceleration a_1 and final
   deceleration a_2 the values of interest for the journey are the maximum
   velocity at the turning point (where we change from acceleration to
   deceleration) v_u, the distance d_2 of the turning point from the target
   and the time t_d that is needed for travelling the distance d. We assume
   that forces other than those produced by our own engines can be neglected
   and that we start and reach the target with zero velocity. Furthermore we
   assume that the engines are used all the time at full power. If the main
   engine is used for acceleration and deceleration the equations are very
   simple:

	    v_u = sqrt(a d);     t_d = 2 sqrt(d/a);     d_2 = d/2       (2)

   This fastest mode of flight is used to accelerate up to the turning point
   velocity at the distance d_2, turn the ship and decelerate until the
   target is reached.

   If the autopilot is used instead, it will use the main engine for
   acceleration and the secondary thrusters (retro thrusters) for
   deceleration. In this case we get the equations:

		   v_u = sqrt( 2 d (a_1 a_2)/(a_1 + a_2) )

		   t_d = sqrt( 2 d (a_1 + a_2)/(a_1 a_2) )              (3)

			   d_2 = d a_1/(a_1 + a_2)

   The time t_d is always a lower bound for the really used time because the
   autopilot doesn't use the engines at full power all the time. I
   approximated the real time consumption of autopilot flight with a least
   mean square fit of data from 20 undisturbed flights with a Cobra MK III.
   Measuring the distance in astronomical units [AU] and the acceleration in
   units of earth gravitational acceleration [g], I got for the time [d]:

    t_dA = 1.212/86400 *
      sqrt( (2.992 * 10^11)/9.81 ( d (a_1 + a_2)/(a_1 a_2) ) ) - 0.001  (4)



VII-C   Hyperdrives and Jump Ranges

   A hyperdrive lets you travel its maximum range in seven days, which is 168
   hours. Travel time is linear with distance, so you will use one day to
   travel a seventh of your hyperdrive range. For a class n drive you will
   need n^2 tons of fuel to travel the maximum range, except for the class 8
   hyperdrive which actually is a class 9 drive and therefore uses 81 tons
   for a maximum range jump. The fuel consumption is linear with the
   distance, using only integer amounts of fuel, so you will need e.g.
   ceil(n^2/2) tons of fuel to travel half the maximum drive range. The only
   difference between the civil and military versions of a drive is the
   weight of the drive and the type of fuel used.
 
   The relation between jump cost c [t], jump time t [h], ship mass m [t] and
   jump distance d [lj] can be expressed a little more exact to give you a
   few numbers to crunch. Here the equations:

	    c = ceil( d * m / 200),    t = 168/200 * d * m / h^2        (5)

   If you set the time to the maximum 168h in the second equation you can
   calculate the maximum range of the drive of a given class in a given ship.
   If you do this for the class 8 drive in a Panther or Boa you get
   inconsistencies. From the ships table you can see that the class 8
   drive behaves like a class 9 drive in the Panther and like a class 7.79
   drive in the Boa. I hope this indicates a mistake in the table. The
   maximum ranges for the Lynx Bulk Carrier and the Long Range Cruiser are
   calculated as if the class 8 drive were actually class 9 drive. I don't
   know whether these ships can carry hyperdrives at all.



VIII   Wormhole Theory


   The following seems to be invalid for the newer PC versions of the game.

   A ship can jump very large distances due to a modulo effect in the
   hyperspace continuum with a base of W_sect = 81.62 sector lengths
   (655.36 lj). One can use this behavior to find jump paths that are much
   shorter in time and fuel consumption than the straight distance. This also
   allows you to use a smaller hyperdrive and leaves more room for fuel and
   cargo. The optimal jump points for a journey between two systems with one
   intermediate stop are found on the intersections of circles around the two
   endpoints of the journey. On such a circle lie the systems that can be
   reached from the center of the circle with a minimum amount of fuel and
   time. A system at the intersection of such circles can be reached easily
   from the centers of both circles, making it an ideal intermediate jump
   point. The circles have multiples of the wormhole distance (655.36 lj) as
   radii. To make the calculations simple we assume at first, that the
   "thickness" of a sector can be neglected and that two jumps with equal
   distance shall be made, resulting in circles with equal radius. The
   coordinates of the ideal intermediate jump points can now be found on a
   line that perpendicular bisects the segment between the two endpoints of
   your journey, at the points of intersection of the circles around the
   endpoints.

   For two star systems at the coordinates (x, y) and (u, v) we define:


		       a = (u - x);       b = (v - y)                 (6)


   We choose a jump distance of W_n = n x W_sect sectors. With this
   definitions we get as coordinates for the intermediate jump (p, q):

	     p = (x + u)/2 + b sqrt( W_n^2 / (a^2 + b^2) - 1/4 )
                                                                       (7)
	     q = (y + v)/2 - a sqrt( W_n^2 / (a^2 + b^2) - 1/4 )

   or
	     p = (x + u)/2 - b sqrt( W_n^2 / (a^2 + b^2) - 1/4 )
                                                                       (8)
	     q = (y + v)/2 + a sqrt( W_n^2 / (a^2 + b^2) - 1/4 )

   Now n has to be chosen such that the square root has a real solution (the
   jump radius is larger than the half distance between the systems) and we
   have to find a system near one of the intermediate jump points.  If such a
   system cannot be found, we simply increment n and try again with a
   wormhole distance of the next greater order.

   If you want to perform two jumps with different jump sizes the equations
   have essentially the same structure but get a bit more complicated. We
   define a and b as in (5) and choose the jump distances W_m = m x W_sect
   for the first jump and W_n = n x W_sect for the second jump. m and n must
   be chosen such that: 

		 | m - sqrt(a^2 + b^2) / W_sect |  <=  n  <=            (9)
                   m + sqrt(a^2 + b^2) / W_sect

   This ensures, that there exists an intermediate jump point at all. With

	       alpha = (W_m^2 - W_n^2) / (2 (a^2 + b^2)) + 1/2          (10)

   we get for the coordinates of the intermediate jump point (p, q):

      p = (1-alpha) x + alpha u + b sqrt( W_m^2 / a^2 + b^2 - alpha^2 )
				                                        (11)
      q = (1-alpha) y + alpha v - a sqrt( W_m^2 / a^2 + b^2 - alpha^2 )

   or         

      p = (1-alpha) x + alpha u - b sqrt( W_m^2 / a^2 + b^2 - alpha^2 )
                                                                        (12)
      q = (1-alpha) y + alpha v + a sqrt( W_m^2 / a^2 + b^2 - alpha^2 )



IX    Programs for a HP42S pocket calculator


 Here comes a collection of programs for my pocket calculator that I have
 found useful in navigation and the collection of statistical data.



IX-A    Convert time display formats


 First a program that converts a time interval given as days:hours:minutes
 to decimal fractions of a day:


% convert number in the form ddhhmm to a decimal dd.dd form
% =========================================================
%
% memory:      dhm     day in ddhhmm form


lbl     "dhm->d"
input   "dhm           % input ddhhmm here
xeq     d
stop
goto    "dhm->d"


% subroutine for conversion ddhhmm -> dd.dd
% -----------------------------------------
%
% input:       ddhhmm on stack
%
% memory:      00     accumulator for dd.dd
%              01     temporary storage
%              02     unprocessed input


lbl     d
sto 02
10,000 /
ip                   % isolate day number
sto     00
10,000 x
sto-    02           % remove days, leaving hhmm
R^                   % normalize stack
rcl     02
100 /
ip                   % hours number
sto     01
24 /                 % hours per day
sto+    00
R^                   % normalize stack
rcl     01
100 x
rcl     02
x<>y
-                    % leave mm entry of input
1440 /               % minutes per day
rcl+    00
rtn
end


IX-B    Estimate travel time

 The next program uses equation (4) to calculate an estimate for the duration
 of a flight. You put the acceleration of your main and secondary thrusters
 into the global variables mn_g and bk_g and the program asks you for the
 distance in astronomical units. Acceleration is measured in units of earth
 gravitational acceleration and is constant for a given ship, so you have to
 initialize the variables only once for a ship. The calculated time is output
 in decimal fractions of a day.


% calculate time estimate in days for a local journey
% ===================================================
%
% memory:      mn_g    acceleration of main thruster in g
%              bk_g    acceleration of back thruster in g
%
%              s_au    distance to be travelled in AU


lbl     "au->t"
input   "s_au"
sqrt


% calc. factor for conversion


rcl     "mn_g"
rcl+    "bk_g"
9.81 /
rcl/    "bk_g"
rcl/    "mn_g"
2.992E11 *
sqrt
1.212 *

*                    % mult with conversion factor
86400 /              % convert to days dd.dd
0.001 -
end



IX-C    Calculate jump points

 The following program uses equations (9) to (11) to calculate the position
 of jump points for wormhole jumps. You provide it with the jump orders and
 in complex form the coordinates of your current and target system. It gives
 you the coordinates of the optimal jump points as output (also in complex
 form). If no jump point exists for the given jump orders, an error is
 produced while calculating the square root.


% calculate coordinates of jump point
% ===================================
%
% memory:      ord1    order of first jump
%              ord2    order of second jump
%              x,y     coordinates of start system  (complex)
%              u,v     coordinates of target system (complex)
%
%              00     x
%              01     y
%              02     u
%              03     v

                                                                           17
%             04     a = u-x
%             05     b = v-y
%             06     alpha
%             07     x + alpha * a
%             08     y + alpha * b
%             09     a^2 + b^2
%             10     sqrt (...)
%             11     a * sqrt
%             12     b * sqrt


lbl     "hjmp"
realres               % only real results of sqrt
fix     02            % only two digits after decimal point


input   "ord1"        % get order of jumps
input   "ord2"


input   "x,y"          % get start coordinate
complex               % convert to real/real
sto     01
R^
sto     00
R^
input   "u,v"          % get target coordinate
complex
sto     03
rcl-    01
sto     05            % store b
R^
sto     02
rcl-    00
sto     04            % store a


% calculate alpha


x^2                  % a^2
rcl     05
x^2
+
sto     09            % save a^2 + b^2
2 *
rcl     "ord1"
81.62 *
x^2
rcl     "ord2"
81.62 *
x^2
-
x<>y
/
0.5 +
sto     06            % store alpha


% calculate sums in front of square root


rcl*    04
rcl+    00

                                                                           18
sto     07            % x + alpha * a
R^
rcl     06
rcl*    05
rcl+    01
sto     08            % y + alpha * b
R^


% calculate square root


rcl     "ord1"
81.62 *
x^2
rcl/    09
rcl     06
x^2
-
sqrt
sto     10
rcl*    04
sto     11     % a * sqrt
R^
rcl     10
rcl*    05
sto     12     % b * sqrt


% calculate coordinates of first jump point


rcl+    07     % p coordinate on stack
rcl     08
rcl-    11     % q coordinate on stack
complex


% and now the second jump point


rcl     07
rcl-    12     % p coordinate on stack
rcl     08
rcl+    11     % q coordinate on stack
complex


end


X     Keyboard Reference (German Keyboard)

                 ___________________________________________
                 |_______________global_control_____________|
                  game exit                : ^C
                  pause                    : ESC
                  accelerate time, level x : SHIFT + Fx
                  dump screen (?)          : numeric *
                 ___________________________________________
                 |_______________cursor_control_____________|
                  move cursor              : ALT + arrow keys
                  select (= mouse left)    : numeric 0
                 ___________________________________________
                 |_______________flight_control_____________|
                  turn down                : A
                  turn up                  : Y
                  turn starboard           : .
                  turn port                : ,
                  accelerate               : CR
                  decelerate               : RIGHT SHIFT
                  hyperjump                : H
                  force misjump            : ALT + F8 in flight menu
                 ___________________________________________
                 |____________external_view_control_________|
                  rotate                   : arrow keys
                  zoom in                  : sz
                  zoom out                 : '
                 ___________________________________________
                 |______________weapon_control______________|
                  fire laser               : SPC
                  fire missile             : M
                  fire ECM                 : E
                  fire energy bomb         : B
                  activate radar scanner   : R
                  activate milit. camera   : D
                  activate escape capsule  : X
                 ___________________________________________
                 |________________sector_map________________|
                  recenter map             : C
                  hyperjump                : H
                  map panning              : arrow keys
                  fast map panning         : SHIFT + arrow keys
                 ___________________________________________
                 |________________system_map________________|
                  time forward             : RIGHT arrow key
                  time backward            : LEFT arrow key or #
                  fast zoom-in             : double click zoom-in
                 ___________________________________________
                 |___________________misc___________________|
                  unload/pick up MB4       : D


  In menues you can select the items via keyboard. To select an item you
  simply type the number (NOT on the numerical keypad!) of it's position in
  the list. The items are numbered from top to bottom, starting at 1. The
  keys 2, 4, 6 and 8 on the numerical keypad are equivalent to the arrow
  keys.


XI   Game Tables


XI-A   Ships

   Ships are given with their type, hull weight, loading capacity, retro
   thruster acceleration, main thruster acceleration, number of crew members,
   number of gun mountings, number of missile pylons, jump distances for
   different drive classes, possibility to mount a fuel scoop, the initial
   drive class and the price.

_______________________________________________________________________________
_Type________Hull__Cap__Re__Mn___Cr__Gn_Ms_Drive__________________FS_Cl____Pr_k

 Adder         15   40  8.0 18.1  1  1  0  1 : 3.63/14.54/32.72   y  2     73 k
 Anaconda     150  650  3.0  6.0  8  2  8  4 : 4/6.25/9/12.25     y  6  1,060 k
 Asp           30  120  7.0 22.2  2  2  1  2 : 5.33/12/21.33      y  3    187 k
 Boa          200 1300  4.0  8.0 10  4  6  5 : 3.33/4.8/6.53/8.1  y  8  2,474 k
 Cobra Mk I    15   60  6.0 16.1  1  2  2  2 : 10.66/24           y  2     97 k
 Cobra Mk III  20   80  7.0 20.1  1  2  4  2 : 8/18               y  2    124 k
 Constrictor   30   90 10.0 22.0  2  2  2  2 : 6.66/15/26.66      y  2    143 k
 Eagle Mk I     5   20 10.0 25.2  1  1  2  1 : 8/32               n  1     38 k
 Eagle Mk II    6   22  4.0 28.2  1  1  2  1 : 7.14/28.57         n  1     41 k
 Eagle Mk III   8   22 15.1 28.2  1  1  2  1 : 6.66/26.66         n  1     43 k
 Falcon         5   11  9.0 30.2  1  1  2  1 : 12.5               n  1m    46 k
 Gecko         11   34  9.0 16.1  1  2  1  1 : 4.44/17.77/40      n  2     66 k
 Hawk           5    7  6.0 27.2  1  1  2  1 : 11.11              n  1m    48 k
 Imp Courier  130  350  6.0 16.1  1  1  6  3 : 3.75/6.66/10.41/15 n  5    609 k
 Imp Trader   175  525  4.0  9.0  1  1  6  4 : 4.57/7.14/10.28/14 n  6    949 k
 Int. Shuttle   4    4  3.0  5.0  1  0  0  _                      n  I     14 k
 Kestrel        5    9  6.0 25.2  1  1  2  1 : 10                 n  1m    50 k
 Krait          8   27 10.0 20.1  1  1  4  1 : 5.71/22.85/51.42   n  1     50 k
 Lifter         3    7  2.0  4.0  1  0  0  1 : 20                 n  I     16 k
 Lion          65  235  3.0  5.0  4  3  8  3 : 6/10.66/16.66      y  3    348 k
 Moray         17   70  6.0 14.1  1  1  4  2 : 9.19/20.68         y  2    109 k
 Osprey         4   11  8.0 27.2  1  1  2  1 : 13.33              n  1m    45 k
 Panther      400 2000  3.0  6.0 12  4  8  6 : 4.05/5.52/9.1      n  8  2,753 k
 Puma         175  825  3.0  6.0  9  4  8  4 : 3.2/5/7.2/9.8      y  6  1,265 k
 Python       100  400  4.0 10.0  7  2  4  3 : 3.6/6.4/10/14.4    y  4    575 k
 Sidewinder     8   25 12.1 23.2  1  1  0  1 : 6.06/24.24/54.54   y  1     44 k
 Tiger Trader  80  320  5.0 12.1  5  3  1  3 : 4.5/8/12.5/18      y  4    472 k
 Transporter   40  160  4.0  9.0  3  3  2  2 : 4/9/16/25          n  3    241 k
 Viper         15   50 10.0 24.2  1  1  4  1 : 3.07/12.3/27.69    y  2     87 k
 Lynx Bulk
    Carrier 1200  6000  1    3   20  0  0  8 : 2.25               ?  ?  7,228 k
 Long Range
    Cruiser 1000 15000  1    3  100  1  0  8 : 1.01               ?  ? 16,110 k


   The drives for Imperial Courier and Imperial Trader are fixed and not
   changeable. The Interplanetary Drive of the Lifter cannot be removed to
   add a jump drive.

   The Lynx Bulk Carrier and the Long Range Cruiser can both sometimes be
   seen in the near of space stations. They don't seem to move but if I
   remember right, the Lynx Bulk Carriers at least answer your
   communication. Long Range Cruisers seem to be abandoned and are only good
   for hide and seek games with the Vipers of the local police or for target
   practice. I know of no opportunity to buy one of the ships.

XI-B   Lasers and Shields

   A shield works like an extra hull that can take up to 16 tons damage
   before your real hull is damaged. It regenerates at a few percent per
   second and does this faster if you use an Energy Booster (approximately 3%
   per second). The regeneration rate is independent of the number of shields
   you have and the state of your shields. The strength of your shielding is
   proportional to the number of your shields, so 10 shields can take 160
   tons damage before your hull is damaged.  A pulse laser can inflict 12.5
   tons of damage per MW power. This means that one shield can absorb one hit
   of an 1 MW pulse laser and will degrade to 22% in the process. A directly
   following second hit would reduce your shield to 0% and cause nine tons of
   damage to your hull.  This shows that the damage a shield can absorb is
   proportional to its state, which means that one shield can take e.g. eight
   tons of damage at 50% reducing it to 0% without causing damage to your
   hull.

   Here a more complex example: You have two shields and get hit four times
   by an 1MW pulse laser. Your shields recharge 5% between the hits. The
   first hit reduces your shields from the original 32 tons protection to
   19.5 tons protection or 60%. Before the next hit the shields recharge 5%
   to 21.1 tons protection. The next hit reduces the shields to 8.6 tons
   which are recharged to 10.2 tons. The third hit cuts through your shields
   and causes 2.3 tons damage to your hull. Recharge will bring your shields
   back to 1.6 tons protection and the last hit will take them down again and
   cause another 10.9 tons of damage to your hull for a total damage of 13.2
   tons.

   The higher firing rate of beam lasers seems to result in approximately
   five times the power of pulse lasers resulting in higher damage over the
   same time interval. This means that a 1 MW beam laser should be
   approximately equivalent to a 5 MW pulse laser. Mining lasers have a very
   low firing rate but inflict enough damage to destroy an Imperial Courier
   with one hit. The damage they can cause with one hit is estimated to be
   somewhere between 750 and 1,500 tons.



XI-C   Equipment

 The possible equipment items together with their weight are given in the
 following table:


         _______Equipment________Weight_|_____Equipment______Weight_

          XB13 Dummy Mine           1 t |XB74 Proximity Mine      1 t
          Energy Bomb               4 t |KL760 Homing Missile     1 t
          LV111 Smart Missile       1 t |NN500 Navy Missile       1 t
          30 MW Mining Laser       10 t |1 MW Pulse Laser         1 t
          5 MW Pulse Laser          3 t |1 MW Beam Laser          5 t
          4 MW Beam Laser          20 t |20 MW Beam Laser        75 t
          100 MW Beam Laser       200 t |Laser Cooling Booster    1 t
          Small Plasma Accel.     500 t |Large Plasma Accel.    900 t
          ECM                       2 t |Naval ECM                2 t
          Cargo Bay Life Support    1 t |Extra Passenger Cabin    5 t
          Auto Pilot                1 t |Auto Refueller           1 t
          Scanner                   1 t |Radar Mapper             1 t
          Hyper-Space Cloud Anal.   1 t |Shield Generator         4 t
          Energy Booster            5 t |Escape Capsule           5 t
          Atmospheric Shielding     1 t |Hull Auto Repair        40 t
          Fuel Scoop                6 t |Cargo Scoop Converter    2 t
          MB4 Mining Machine       30 t |Interplanetary Drive     4 t
          Hyperdrive Class 1       10 t |Hyperdrive Class 2      25 t
          Hyperdrive Class 3       45 t |Hyperdrive Class 4      80 t
          Hyperdrive Class 5      150 t |Hyperdrive Class 6     250 t
          Hyperdrive Class 7      400 t |Hyperdrive Class 8     600 t
          Military Drive Class 1    6 t |Military Drive Class 2  12 t
          Military Drive Class 3   24 t |Military Drive Class 4   ? t
          Fighter Launcher          ? t |


   A Class 8 Hyperdrive can only be bought as a builtin drive with the Boa or
   the Panther Clipper.
   No one has ever seen a Class 4 Military Drive or a Fighter Launcher but
   there are rumors that they exist in the game somewhere.



XI-D   Merchandise

Just for reference, here the list of merchandise:


        __________________________Merchandise____________________________

         Water           Liquid Oxygen    Grain           Fruit and Veg.
         Animal Meat     Synthetic Meat   Liquor          Medicines
         Fertilizer      Luxury Goods     Heavy Plastics  Metal Alloys
         Precious Metals Gem Stones       Minerals        Hydrogen Fuel
         Military Fuel   Industrial Parts Computers       Air Processors
         Farm Machinery  Roboters         Radioactives    Rubbish
         Narcotics       Animal Skins     Live Animals    Slaves
         Hand Weapons    Battle Weapons   Nerve Gas     


XI-E   Ranks

  Here comes the list of ranks in the German and the English version version
  together with the number of points you have to get to advance to a given
  rank.

  _Federation_German_|English_______|Empire_German_|English___|__Points_

   Keiner             None           Aussenseiter    Outsider          0
   Gefreiter          Private        Leibeigener     Serf              1
   Unteroffizier      Corporal       Master          Master           16
   Feldwelbel         Sergeant       Sir             Sir              81
   Hauptfeldwebel     Sgt-Major      Squire          Squire          256
   Major              Major          Lord            Lord            625
   Oberst             Colonel        Baron           Baron         1,296
   Leutnant           Lieutnant      Viscount        Viscount      2,401
   Korvettenkapitaen  Lt. Commander  Count           Count         4,096
   Kapitaen           Captain        Earl            Earl          6,561
   Kommodore          Commodore      Marquis         Marquis      10,000
   Konteradmiral      Rear Admiral   Herzog          Duke         14,641
   Admiral            Admiral        Prinz           Prince       20,736

  The following table shows the correspondence between the mission type and
  the points you get for the successful completion of a mission:

			 _Mission_Type____|_Points_

			  delivery	     2
			  assassination     14
			  foto              16
			  bombing           18
			  `excellent' foto  20
				      
   Different kinds of military missions are bound to your rank. In the
   federation you carry unimportant stuff until you get promoted to Sergeant;
   then the first secret messages may be carried by you. You will get your
   first military assassination mission as Sgt-Major. After your promotion to
   Major you will get additional reconnaissance missions and a Colonel may
   execute bombing missions. The empire handles equivalent ranks the same
   way. You seem to get no new type of mission when you advance further in
   rank although there are many rumors that you get new missions to destroy
   enemy ships at Commodore/Marquis level.

   The above does not hold, if you execute missions for more than one side. I
   made the mistake of working for the empire after I advanced to Colonel and
   had gotten my first few bombing missions.
   I advanced to Squire in the empire and went back to the federation. Now I
   had the problem, that I got no more bombing missions but had to stay with
   the usual reconnaissance missions. I eventually got bombing missions again,
   but working for the empire surely stopped my federal career for a while.

   The safest way to advance in the federation and the empire at the same
   time seems to be the famous `rank swing': Advance one rank in the
   federation, work for the empire and advance one rank there, return to the
   federation and so on until you are Admiral/Prince and ELITE and bored to
   death.

   Your rank is not the only prerequisite you need to get a certain type of
   mission. You have to own all the possible medals for earlier missions
   first. You get medals for:

   1. the first delivery of an important item like gravitic detonators,
   2. the first delivery of secret communication,
   3. the first successful assassination,
   4. the first successful reconnaissance mission,
   5. the first reconnaissance mission with resulting excellent film and
   6. the first successful bombing mission.

   A strange side effect is, that you must not perform all reconnaissance
   missions perfectly, because if you do, you will not get your fourth medal!

   The complete list of medals for the German and the English version of the
   game looks as follows:

  _Federation_German|_English____________|_Empire German___|_English___

  Tapferkeitsurkunde Certificate of Valor Rote Armbinde     Crimson Brassard
  Sternexplosion     Starburst            Schwarzes Polygon Black Polygon
  Purpur-Omega       Purple Omega         Goldene Lanze     Gold Spike
  Zinnober-Krone     Vermillion Crest     Platinkreuz       Platinum Cross
  Blauer Exzelsior   Blue Excelsior       Ehrenlegion       Legion of Honour
  Frontier Medaille  Frontier Medal       Himmelskrieger    Celestial Warrior


XI-F   Combat Rating

  And here your combat rating with more magic numbers. They seem to denote
  the number of ships you have destroyed multiplied by 256. In other words,
  you get 256 points for each destroyed ship regardless of its type.

         _German_______________|_English_________|  _Points _|Kills_

          Harmlos                Harmless               0        0
          Meistens Harmlos       Mostly Harmless    1,024        4
          Schwach                Poor               2,048        8
          Unterdurchschnittlich  Below Average      4,096       16
          Durchschnittlich       Average            8,192       32
          U"berdurchschnittlich  Above Average     16,384       64
          Kompetent              Competent         32,768      128
          Gef"ahrlich            Dangerous        256,000    1,000
          T"odlich               Deadly           768,000    3,000
          ELITE                  ELITE          1,536,000    6,000


   For every 256 destroyed ships you will get a message like: "right on
   commander". This is an indication of your advances between the ranks. From
   the table you can see, that you should get Dangerous between the third and
   the fourth message of this kind. You advance to Deadly between the 11th
   and 12th message. You should become ELITE after the 23rd message.



XI-G   Legal Status

The last table gives the possible legal status with the associated fines (?):


                   _German_______|__English__|_____Fine_

                    W. Weste        Clean            0
                    Straff`ll.      Offender         1
                    Krimin.         Criminal     5,500
                    Outlaw          Outlaw      20,000
                    Fluechtig       Fugitive   100,000



XII   System Info


  There seem to be differences between the coordinates of systems in the PC
  and the Amiga version of the game. Usually they are smaller than one
  sector, the only verified case of a large difference being the Andolqu
  system [PC -76, 29], [Amiga -74, 29]. The following tables correspond to
  the PC version. If you find systems to be located in a different sector on
  your Amiga, I would be glad to include a list of differences (that you will
  have to provide). If they are too many, it would be interesting to find
  out, whether a more systematic approach could be successful.

  The system names in the tables that correspond with really existing
  astronomical objects are printed with a leading "_" character. Not all
  probable candidates for astronomical objects (like 82 Eridani) could be
  found in the star catalogues I have access to. They may be astronomical
  objects or not.



XII-A   Settlements and Tourist Attractions Far Out

  Here comes a list of inhabited systems with starports far from the core
  systems, mixed with a few systems of specific interest.

    ______________________________________________________________________
    ___System_______Coord______Politics______________Comments_____________

     Aaqu        [  771, -1302] indep corp
     Ackargre    [-4310, -1999] indep anarchy
     Ackarol     [-2000,  -879] indep corp
     _Alcyone	 [   32,    32] uninhabited
     Aliafa	 [-2107, -1017] indep corp
     _Antares	 [  -39,   -34] uninhabited    no planets
     Anvequ	 [  360,    -5] indep corp
     Arfaess	 [ 1020,     0] indep corp
     Arwabe	 [ -766,  -766] indep corp
     _Atlas	 [   32,    32] uninhabited
     Ayessand	 [-1022, -1022] indep corp
     Aysool	 [-1495, -1574] indep anarchy
     Ayurda      [ -666,   117] indep anarchy
     Becaness    [  772, -1303] indep corp
     Becanol     [-1509,   -35] indep corp
     Beenbe      [-2757,   -35] indep anarchy
     Beenla	 [  254,     0] indep corp
     _Beta Lyrae [ -146,    85] uninhabited    contact binary star
     _Betelgeuse [   59,    14] uninhabited    supergiant
     Betiess     [-2344,   -35] indep anarchy
     Daaya       [  937,   789] indep anarchy
     Edaso       [-1790, -1790] indep corp
     Edcelia     [-2107,   503] indep corp
     Edenve	 [  254,     0] indep corp
     _Electra	 [   32,    32] uninhabited
     Enangre     [-1225,  -922] indep corp
     Enlabe      [-1792, -1792] indep corp
     Enquze	 [-1674, -1498] indep corp
     Esswaze     [-1790, -1790] indep corp
     Exvefa      [-2000,  -194] indep corp
     Faarfa	 [ -509,  -770] indep corp
     Fainin      [  771, -1302] indep corp
     Famiay	 [-2107,   -63] indep corp
     Greurqu     [  772, -1303] indep corp
     _Hadar      [   -6,   -40] uninhabited    supergiant
     Hoessce     [-5180, -2000] indep corp
     Ioandqu     [  772, -1303] indep corp
     Ioceay      [-1509,   -35] indep corp
     Ioquex      [  772, -1303] indep corp
     Iozeio	 [ -376,  -426] indep corp
     Lahola      [ 1022,    -4] indep corp
     Lasolia     [-2000, -1566] indep corp
     _Maia	 [   32,    32] uninhabited
     _Merope	 [   32,    32] uninhabited
     Micanex	 [ -739,  -539] indep anarchy
     Miphimi     [-2102, -1745] indep corp
     Oletphi     [-2331,   -35] indep corp
     Phiolbe     [-2187,   -35] indep anarchy
     _Pleione	 [   32,    32] uninhabited
     _Polaris    [    0,    76] uninhabited    supergiant
     Qumia       [-2107,   503] indep corp
     _Rigel      [   92,     6] unexplored     supergiant
     Solaqu	 [-2107, -1017] indep corp
     _Spica	 [   -4,   -17] uninhabited    no planets
     _Taygete	 [   32,    32] uninhabited
     Tiafa	 [ -748,  -863] indep corp
     Urbela      [ -719,    -6] indep corp
     Urceve	 [-1814, -1745] indep corp
     Urioed      [-2000,  -879] indep corp
     Ururur	 [-1814, -1745] indep corp
     Vewela      [-1790, -1790] indep corp
     Wafaa       [ -666,   117] indep anarchy



XII-B   System Database

   A table of systems I have had contact with is given on the next pages. For
   every system the sector coordinates, maximum distance to the nearest
   starport or station and the political system are listed together with
   some comments.
 ____________________________________________________________________________
 _____System_____Coord__AU_______Politics_______________Comments_____________

  1o4774          [-1, 1]   9.02 indep corp
  AC+79o3888      [ 0, 2]   8.97 indep corp
  Aandti          [ 0,-5]   8.58 indep corp      no starport
  Achenar         [ 1,-4]  57.78 imp capital     luxury goods export, computer
                                                 import, radioactives illegal,
                                                 Honest John Thatcher's ok,
                                                 avoid Ulrich's Warehouse
  Ackcanphi       [-4,-4]        indep disputed
  Ackdati         [ 0,-5]  19.74 imperial
  Ackexa          [-3, 3]        indep corp
  Acklave         [ 2,-2]  18.30 indep anarchy   no starport
  Ackwada         [-5,-3]        indep corp
  Ackzece         [ 1,-5]  10.30 imperial
  Aenze           [ 3,-6]   8.68 indep anarchy
  _Alcor          [ 0, 5]        indep corp      no planets
  _Aldebaran      [ 6, 4]        uninhabited     no planets
  _Alioth         [ 0, 4]  23.63 indep democracy disputed system
  _Altair         [-2, 1]  10.87 fed democracy   robot import
  _Alpha Centauri [ 0, 0] 990.00 fed colony
  Anacka          [ 4,-4]   9.21 indep corp      no starport
  Anacketh        [ 0,-5]  13.79 imperial
  Anave           [ 3, 0]   7.70 indep anarchy
  Anayeth         [-1,-4]        imp colony
  Andceeth        [-5, 2]        indep disputed
  Andcefa         [ 2,-3]  11.15 imp colony
  Andinol         [ 3,-6]   4.15 indep anarchy   no starport
  Andwafa         [-2, 3]        indep corp
  Anlaol          [ 1,-6]  11.19 imperial
  Anlave          [ 0, 3]  10.57 fed democracy
  Anphiex         [ 2,-2]  10.98 indep corp
  Arayess         [ 4,-7]        indep dict      under federal interdict
  _Arcturus       [-2, 0]  12.02 fed democracy
  Arexack         [-1,-5]        indep corp
  Aveed           [ 3, 0]  12.73 indep corp
  Ayarlia         [ 3, 1]   6.94 indep corp
  Ayethti         [-3,-1]        indep democracy
  Ayfati          [ 1,-5]   9.69 imperial
  Aymiay          [ 1, 4]   6.17 fed democracy
  Aymifa          [ 2,-5]  10.81 imperial
  Aymigre         [ 2,-3]   9.32 indep anarchy   no starport
  Ayqugre         [ 4,-5]  11.02 indep anarchy   no starport
  Ayurso          [ 4, 0]   9.09 indep civil war exorbitant prices for robots
                                                 and luxury goods
  BD 946          [-1, 2]        indep corp
  _Barnard        [-1, 0]  11.08 fed colony      robot export, luxury goods
                                                 import, Haynes and Son Inc.,
                                                 Merchant Darke's ok
  Becanin         [ 3, 0]   7.71 indep corp
  Bedaho          [-4,-2]   7.74 fed democracy
  Befaqu          [-2, 8]        indep dict      under federal interdict
  Behoqu          [ 2,-4]   9.34 imperial        contract targets may crash on
                                                 start from Manchester City
  Besaex          [ 3, 0]        indep corp
  _Beta Hydri     [ 0,-2]  10.69 fed democracy
  Beuress         [ 0,-5]  10.62 indep anarchy
  Beurqu          [ 3,-5]  10.60 indep anarchy   no starport
  Bewaack         [ 0,-5]  10.92 indep anarchy   no starport
  CD-37o15492     [ 0, 0]  10.52 indep corp
  CD-44o11909     [-1,-1]  11.20 indep anarchy
  CD-46o11540     [-1,-1]  10.94 indep corp
  CD-49o13515     [-1,-1]   8.65 indep corp
  Canayce         [ 2,-6] 421.41 indep anarchy
  Candaess        [ 2,-4] 238.55 imperial
  Caninve         [ 3,-2]   9.48 indep anarchy   no starport
  _Canopus        [ 6,-6]        indep anarchy   supergiant
  _Capella        [ 4, 4]        indep corp
  Ceessze         [ 3,-4]  10.15 indep anarchy
  Cegreeth        [-1,-3] 220.00 imp colony      reference selection fixed on
                                                 Cegreeth D, discretization
                                                 problems
  Cemiess         [-2,-2]        imperial        negative black market prices
                                                 for gem stones and precious
                                                 metals, Richard's Exchange,
                                                 Patrick's Exchange, Judd's
                                                 Trading ok
  Cetilia         [ 4,-5]  17.10 indep anarchy
  _Cygni, 61      [-1, 1]  48.62 fed democracy   single starport, often busy
  Daceess         [ 2,-5]  17.01 indep anarchy   no starport
  Dainay          [ 2, 3]  10.49 indep corp
  Dainfa          [ 3,-6]  10.72 indep corp
  _Delta Pavonis  [-1,-2]  10.59 fed democracy   many political contracts
  Diso            [-3,-6]        indep democracy
  Edethex         [ 3,-3]   8.35 fed democracy
  Edlave          [ 3,-2]  15.64 indep anarchy   no starport
  Edliaze         [ 2,-2]  10.01 indep corp
  Enaness         [-5, 1]        indep communist
  Encea           [-2, 2]  10.73 indep corp
  Enquze          [ 4,-3]  10.79 indep corp
  _Epsilon Eridani[ 1, 0]  11.07 indep corp
  _Epsilon Indi   [-1,-1]  10.63 fed democracy
  Eridani, 82     [ 1,-1]   9.02 indep corp
  Essaa           [ 1,-5]  10.37 imperial
  Essethlia       [ 4,-2]        indep corp
  Essliagre       [ 2,-4]  11.33 indep anarchy   no starport
  _Eta Cassiopeia [ 0, 2]  10.09 fed base        bring your own military fuel
  Ethgrece        [ 2,-5]   9.23 indep corp
  Exbeur          [-3, 4]  10.31 fed colony      no military fuel
  Exhoed          [ 2, 4]   9.90 indep dict
  Exioce          [-1,-3]  10.54 imperial
  Exiool          [ 2,-4]  10.79 imperial
  Exlagre         [-5, 3]        indep corp
  Extila          [-4,-1]        indep feudal
  Facece          [ 0,-4]   9.59 imp base        luxury goods, medicine
                                                 export, many military
                                                 missions
  Famiso          [ 3,-4]   7.59 indep corp
  Faphive         [ 3,-4]   8.73 indep anarchy   no starport
  Fawaol          [ 2,-3]  15.84 imp colony
  _Fomalhaut      [-1,0 ]  14.11 fed democracy   radioactives illegal,
                                                 Austin's Exchange,
                                                 Shepherd's Merchandise ok,
                                                 avoid O'Hanlon's Goods
                                                 Emporium.
  Greayqu         [ 3,-2] 272.33 indep anarchy   no starport
  Gretiay         [ 3, 2]        indep           no population
  Groombridge 34  [ 0, 1] 135.23 indep corp
  Hobegre         [ 2,-6] 111.44 indep anarchy   no starport
  Hocancan        [ 1,-3]  14.38 indep anarchy   no starport
  Hoethcan        [ 3,-5] 614.74 indep anarchy   no starport
  Inedol          [ 3,-5]   5.81 indep anarchy   no starport
  Inena           [ 3,-6]   9.22 indep dict
  Intiol          [ 2,-4] 380.41 indep anarchy   no starport
  Ioarqu          [ 2,-3] 530    indep anarchy   no starport
  Iohoay          [ 3, 0]   8.46 indep corp      interesting contracts
  Ioioqu          [ 4,-5]  11.21 indep anarchy   no starport
  Ioliaa          [ 2,-6]  10.06 indep corp
  Ioququ          [ 3,-4]  10.93 imperial
  Iozegre         [ 3,-2] 634.68 indep anarchy   no starport
  LP 658-2        [ 2, 0]  10.14 indep anarchy
  Lacaille 8760   [-1, 0]        indep corp
  Lacaille 9352   [-1, 0]        indep corp
  Lacancan        [ 3,-6]        indep anarchy   no starport
  Laedgre         [ 2,-2]   9.14 indep anarchy
  Laedla          [-4, 1]        imp colony
  Laesscan        [ 4,-3]  74.92 indep anarchy   no starport
  Laiogre         [ 4,-4]   8.13 indep anarchy
  Lalande 21185   [ 0, 0]   9.94 indep corp
  Lalande 25372   [ 0, 0]  10.48 indep corp
  Lave            [-3,-6]        indep dict
  Liabeze         [ 2,-4]  10.77 imperial
  Liaedin         [ 4, 3]        indep disputed
  Liaququ         [ 2,-2]  10.07 indep democracy
  Luyten          [-1, 0]        indep corp
  Luyten 97-12    [ 1,-2]  11.14 indep corp
  Luyten 205-128  [-1,-2]   7.88 indep corp
  Luyten 674-15   [ 2,-1]  10.68 indep corp
  Luyten 789-6    [-1, 0]        indep corp
  Maanens, van    [ 0, 1]   9.49 indep dict      isolationistic religious
                                                 enclave, permit required
  Miandze         [ 3,-5] 547.58 indep anarchy   no starport
  Micanex         [ 3,-4]  92.42 indep anarchy   no starport
  Miolgre         [ 2,-5]   8.52 imperial
  Miolze          [ 2,-3]   9.25 indep corp
  _Mizar          [ 0, 5]        indep corp      no planets
  Olaygre         [ 4,-3]   7.63 indep anarchy
  Olcanze         [ 1,-3]        imperial
  Ollaex          [ 2,-3]  11.19 indep corp      no starport
  Oltiqu          [-1, 4]  11.76 fed democracy
  _Omicron Eridani[ 2, 0]  43.38 indep corp
  Ophiuchi, 36    [-1,-1]  78.84 indep corp
  Ophiuchi, 70    [-2, 0]        indep corp
  _Phekda         [ 2, 5]  13.61 indep anarchy
  Phiagre         [ 1,-3] 241.90 indep corp
  Quexce          [-2,-2]   9.45 indep corp
  Quince          [-1,-5]        imperial
  Quphieth        [-3, 0]        indep feudal
  Ququve          [ 1, 4]        fed democracy
  _Regulus        [ 5,-1]        indep corp      no starport
  Riedquat        [-3,-6]        indep anarchy
  Ross 128        [ 0, 0]  10.71 fed colony      prison colony, permit needed,
                                                 Donaldson's Warehouse ok 
  Ross 154        [-1, 0]  10.65 fed colony      single starport, often busy,
                                                 Merchant Nakamichi's ok
  Ross 986        [ 2, 1]   9.96 fed democracy
  _Sigma Draconis [-1, 2]        indep corp
  _Sirius         [ 1, 0]  20.18 indep corp
  Sodaack         [ 1,-6]  12.34 indep anarchy   no starport
  Sohoa           [ 0,-4]  10.71 imperial
  _Sol            [ 0, 0]   9.47 fed capital     luxury goods export, robot
                                                 import, good ship selection
                                                 at Moon, radioactives
                                                 illegal, Haynes Merchandise,
                                                 Greenhill's Warehouse,
                                                 Brennans Holdings, Honest
                                                 John Coate's, Baker's
                                                 Trading Company, Merchant
                                                 London's Honest John Loma's
                                                 ok, avoid Honest John
                                                 Brennan, Merchant Gomez's,
                                                 Thatcher's Merchandise,
                                                 Macmillan's Goods Emporium,
                                                 Shehan's Exchange
  Sophilia        [ 3,-1]  10.38 indep corp
  _Tau Ceti       [ 0, 0]  10.04 fed democracy   many military missions,
                                                 Gilmour Orbiter is a good
                                                 base for a federal military
                                                 career
  Tiacan          [ 3,-4]   6.48 imperial        overpopulated
  Tiancan         [ 4,-5]  11.95 indep anarchy   no starport
  Tiaycan         [ 3, 0]  10.83 indep anarchy
  Tiessgre        [ 3,-3] 306.07 indep anarchy
  Tiliala         [-4,-1]        fed democracy
  Tivecan         [ 2,-3] 248.84 indep anarchy   no starport
  Urfaa           [ 5, 7]        uninhabited     station
  Urlaay          [ 3,-2]  10.82 indep corp      robot export for Zeaex
  Urquay          [ 4,-5]   6.85 indep anarchy   no starport
  Veareth         [ 0,-5]  21.02 imperial        no starport
  Vecanlia        [ 0,-5]  11.31 indep anarchy   no starport
  _Vega           [-3, 2]  10.40 fed democracy
  Vequess         [ 0,-4]   8.88 imperial
  WX Ursa Majoris [ 1, 1]        uninhabited     no planets
  Waarze          [ 4,-4] 133.73 indep anarchy
  Waayol          [ 4,-5]   9.77 fed democracy
  Waceol          [ 3,-4] 162.38 indep anarchy   no starport
  Waessol         [ 2,-3] 305.88 indep anarchy   no starport
  Wainze          [ 3,-2]   9.90 indep corp
  Waolex          [ 4,-4] 549.67 indep anarchy
  Wolf 359        [ 0, 0]  11.35 indep corp
  Wolf 630        [-2,-1] 170.00 fed democracy   radioactives illegal
  YZ Canis Minoris[ 2, 0]   8.79 indep communist permit required
  Zeaex           [ 3,-2]  10.29 indep disputed  robot import, lots of trouble 
  Zeancan         [ 2,-2]   9.68 indep anarchy
  Zeanlia         [ 2, 2]  34.99 indep corp
  Zearla          [-5, 1]        indep feudal
  Zeceand         [ 6,10]        uninhabited     starport
  Zeessze         [ 0, 3]   9.20 fed democracy
  Zeessze         [ 1,-6]   9.02 indep anarchy
  Zelada          [ 1, 4]        indep anarchy



XIII   Wormhole Routes


  In this table, sector coordinates are interpreted relative to the integer
  coordinates of a sector center(the intersection of the faintly colored
  lines). Therefore the sector [0, 0] has the corners [-0.5, 0.5], [0.5, 0.5],
  [0.5, -0.5] and [-0.5, -0.5]. Furthermore the coordinates [-0.7, 1.3] are
  located in sector [-1, 1].
  I am sure that for many jumps better jump points can be found, but this
  little navigation library already helps me a lot. It gets continuously
  updated.
_________________________________________________________________________
____From_______Coord_______To________   Coord____     _Via______Coord____

1o4774       [-0.65, 1.25] Delta Pavonis [-0.90,-1.70] Exaycan  [80.80,-7.25]
1o4774       [-0.65, 1.25] Eta Cassiopeia[ 0.00, 2.50] Anlaso   [-72.80,39.60]
1o4774       [-0.65, 1.25] Maanens, van  [-0.05, 1.10] Anexess  [19.65,80.40]
1o4774       [-0.65, 1.25] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Exquar   [-70.10,-42.05]
1o4774       [-0.65, 1.25] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Milaze   [-54.95,-59.90]
AC+79o3888   [ 0.15, 1.80] Eta Cassiopeia[ 0.00, 2.50] Aressan  [80.15,19.30]
AC+79o3888   [ 0.15, 1.80] Zeanlia       [ 1.60, 1.95] Inarin   [8.80,-79.60]
Aandti       [-0.10,-4.75] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Dalaar   [81.60,-8.05]
Achenar      [ 0.95,-4.15] Barnard       [-0.75, 0.10] Inarho   [76.00,28.20]
Achenar      [ 0.95,-4.15] Eta Cassiopeia[ 0.00, 2.50] Zetiso   [81.35,10.80]
Achenar      [ 0.95,-4.15] Facece        [ 0.30,-4.05] Ayvequ   [-11.65,-85.10]
Achenar      [ 0.95,-4.15] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Ceioho   [80.45,15.20]
Achenar      [ 0.95,-4.15] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Vecanwa  [81.45,9.90]
Ackdati      [ 0.40,-5.15] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Esshocan [-81.25,-9.20]
Ackdati      [ 0.40,-5.15] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Zeandar  [-81.35,-3.80]
Acklave      [ 1.80,-2.50] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Anmiay   [73.80,36.15]
Ackzece      [ 1.30,-5.20] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Olethan  [-79.50,-17.75]
Aenze        [ 2.95,-5.85] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Greanda  [-73.35,-35.10]
Alioth       [-0.50, 4.40] Anlave        [-0.20, 2.80] Ethveur  [80.55,18.60]
Alioth       [-0.50, 4.40] Aymiay        [ 0.90, 4.25] Grececan [9.15,85.80]
Alioth       [-0.50, 4.40] Dainay        [ 1.60, 2.95] Etheneth [-45.85,-63.65]
Alioth       [-0.50, 4.40] Eta Cassiopeia[ 0.00, 2.50] Migreur  [-79.30,-17.40]
Alioth       [-0.50, 4.40] Exhoed        [ 1.95, 4.00] Phicanve [14.25,85.00]
Alioth       [-0.50, 4.40] Oltiqu        [-1.50, 3.95] Arsoa    [-34.30,78.80]
Alioth       [-0.50, 4.40] Phekda        [ 1.50, 5.00] Enphiphi [23.80,-74.20]
Alioth       [-0.50, 4.40] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Andesswa [81.85,12.00]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Andwafa       [-1.90, 3.05] Ackgrean [-83.75,5.30]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Arcturus      [-1.50,-0.50] Arquho   [73.25,32.70]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] CD-46O11540   [-1.20,-1.30] Ackena   [-77.30,-31.35]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Cygni, 61     [-0.90, 1.20] Tiioess  [35.25,-72.35]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Delta Pavonis [-0.90,-1.70] Iozeti   [-75.50,-35.15]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Epsilon Indi  [-0.50,-0.65] Daayho   [52.40,61.65]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Eta Cassiopeia[ 0.00, 2.50] Miarfa   [54.75,-58.30]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Lalande 25372 [-0.45,-0.25] Aydami   [39.60,70.95]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Liabeze       [ 1.60,-4.20] Ceandphi [-65.90,-50.60]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Luyten 97-12  [ 0.90,-1.95] Soedar   [-55.00,-61.65]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Ophiuchi, 36  [-1.80,-1.15] Greliave [-83.25,-9.30]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Ophiuchi, 70  [-2.05, 0.00] Beurcan  [79.65,-5.30]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Otiqu         [-1.50, 3.95] Quceve   [79.20,-9.80]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Ross 154      [-1.10,-0.30] Hoenve   [-61.00,-55.85]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Fasove   [-18.70,-79.40]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Phiwaze  [-9.80,-80.70]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Tiancan       [ 4.35,-5.15] Anququ   [-53.75,-62.70]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Vega          [-2.60, 1.80] Soanden  [70.20,39.05]
Altair       [-2.00, 0.65] Wolf 630      [-2.20,-0.75] Grecaneth [78.70,-11.95]
Anacka       [ 3.75,-3.70] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Faqua    [64.55,51.10]
Anacketh     [ 0.05,-5.00] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Besoso   [-81.45,1.85]
Andcefa      [ 1.55,-3.15] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Zephila  [74.80,33.30]
Andcefa      [ 1.55,-3.15] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Cemiho   [77.90,25.95]
Andinol      [ 2.90,-6.50] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Cemiho   [77.90,25.95]
Anlaol       [ 1.40,-6.00] Eta Cassiopeia[ 0.00, 2.50] Greence  [-80.10,-15.05]
Anlaol       [ 1.40,-6.00] Ross 128      [ 0.30,-0.40] Exedze   [81.05,12.85]
Anlaol       [ 1.40,-6.00] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Ceioho   [80.45,15.20]
Anlaol       [ 1.40,-6.00] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Weethwa  [81.45,10.80]
Anphiex      [ 1.60,-1.65] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Waayan   [62.65,52.65]
Arcturus     [-1.50,-0.50] Barnard       [-0.75, 0.10] Ethaso   [50.15,-63.85]
Arcturus     [-1.50,-0.50] BD 946        [-0.70, 1.65] Zeexce   [-77.75,29.20]
Arcturus     [-1.50,-0.50] Delta Pavonis [-0.90,-1.70] Anbeda   [72.60,34.40]
Arcturus     [-1.50,-0.50] Epsilon Indi  [-0.50,-0.65] Tiesswa  [-13.15,-81.53]
Arcturus     [-1.50,-0.50] Ophiuchi, 70  [-2.05, 0.00] Esseuve  [-56.65,-60.85]
Arcturus     [-1.50,-0.50] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Zecanmi  [33.60,-74.40]
Arcturus     [-1.50,-0.50] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Anayce   [-37.60,72.85]
Arcturus     [-1.50,-0.50] Vega          [-2.60, 1.80] Faenex   [-75.70,-34.70]
Arcturus     [-1.50,-0.50] Wolf 630      [-2.20,-0.75] Tiexex   [-29.40,76.45]
Ayarlia      [ 3.15, 0.65] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Tiayho   [12.50,-80.70]
Ayarlia      [ 3.15, 0.65] Sophilia      [ 3.20,-1.35] Grewalia [-78.60,-2.65]
Ayfati       [ 1.35,-5.30] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Exedze   [81.05,12.85]
Aymiay       [ 0.90, 4.25] Eta Cassiopeia[ 0.00, 2.50] Ayaen    [73.20,-34.00]
Aymifa       [ 1.55,-5.20] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Uracka   [79.25,19.80]
Aymifa       [ 1.55,-5.20] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Essandeth[-78.85,-20.00]
Aymigre      [ 2.10,-2.85] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Ackackar [72.60,38.50]
Ayurso       [ 3.80,-0.50] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Waackio  [23.80,78.75]
Barnard      [-0.75, 0.10] Eta Cassiopeia[ 0.00, 2.50] Aylaeth  [77.85,-22.75]
Barnard      [-0.75, 0.10] Fomalhaut     [-1.15,-0.10] Arethwa  [35.15,-73.40]
Barnard      [-0.75, 0.10] Ross 154      [-1.10,-0.30] Ethiool  [-62.40,53.95]
Barnard      [-0.75, 0.10] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Hoessho  [11.05,-80.85]
Barnard      [-0.75, 0.10] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Ackphied [21.60,-78.70]
Barnard      [-0.75, 0.10] Wolf 359      [ 0.40,-0.15] Liagrelia[-17.80,-79.90]
Bedaho       [-4.20,-1.50] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Edphibe  [-33.20,75.00]
Bedaho       [-4.20,-1.50] Wolf 630      [-2.20,-0.75] Beessbe  [-31.65,75.40]
Behoqu       [ 2.10,-4.40] Eta Cassiopeia[ 0.00, 2.50] Tiliada  [79.65,22.20]
Behoqu       [ 2.10,-4.40] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Laandlia [75.40,31.80]
Behoqu       [ 2.10,-4.40] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Veingre  [-75.10,-31.30]
Beta Hydri   [-0.10,-1.80] Luyten 674-15 [ 2.10,-1.00] Ackdawa  [-27.20,75.30]
Beta Hydri   [-0.10,-1.80] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Phigreay [80.60,-15.05]
Beta Hydri   [-0.10,-1.80] Wolf 630      [-2.20,-0.75] Sophimi  [35.45,72.15]
Beta Lyrae   [-146.20,85.20] Sol         [ 0.00, 0.20] Vewaay  [-143.40,-78.40]
Betelgeuse   [58.85,13.75] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Aredcan  [12.10,81.15]
Beuress      [-0.35,-5.40] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Hoinqu   [81.10,-12.10]
Beurqu       [ 2.90,-5.00] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Phiveay  [75.40,32.70]
Bewaack      [-0.50,-5.15] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Liaethlia[-80.95,8.90]
CD-37o15492  [-0.30,-0.20] Lalande 21185 [ 0.35, 0.30] Labeex   [50.15,-64.65]
CD-37o15492  [-0.30,-0.20] Ross 128      [ 0.30,-0.40] Greurmi  [-25.10,-78.10]
CD-37o15492  [-0.30,-0.20] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Zeurce   [65.40,-49.15]
CD-46o11540  [-1.20,-1.30] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Sodabe   [63.15,-51.75]
Canayce      [ 2.30,-6.30] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Ququfa   [78.50,23.85]
Canayce      [ 2.30,-6.30] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Edacka   [-77.00,-26.25]
Candaess     [ 2.05,-4.25] Eta Cassiopeia[ 0.00, 2.50] Tiliada  [79.65,22.20]
Candaess     [ 2.05,-4.25] Liabeze       [ 1.60,-4.20] Hoyaze   [10.25,77.20]
Candaess     [ 2.05,-4.25] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Laandlia [75.40,31.80]
Candaess     [ 2.05,-4.25] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Beackwe  [-75.20,-31.15]
Candaess     [ 2.05,-4.25] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Veingre  [-75.10,-31.30]
Caninve      [ 2.50,-2.30] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Grewaho  [-61.80,-52.70]
Ceessze      [ 3.30,-3.65] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Hoessar  [-63.95,-50.15]
Cemiess      [-1.50,-2.50] Phekda        [ 1.50, 5.00] Exdain   [-75.80,31.70]
Cemiess      [-1.50,-2.50] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Uressmi  [70.10,-41.90]
Cetilia      [ 4.15,-4.90] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Dalaqu   [65.35,49.20]
Cetilia	     [ 4.15,-4.90] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Tizeay   [68.20,45.85]
Cygni, 61    [-0.90, 1.20] Epsilon Indi  [-0.50,-0.65] Zecephi  [79.15,17.50]
Cygni, 61    [-0.90, 1.20] Ross 154      [-1.10,-0.30] Andolda  [-82.10,10.75]
Cygni, 61    [-0.90, 1.20] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Laackho  [-61.20,-54.05]
Cygni, 61    [-0.90, 1.20] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Philaso  [45.30,68.65]
Daceess      [ 2.15,-4.55] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Laandlia [75.40,31.80]
Daceess      [ 2.15,-4.55] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Essessze [77.90,26.10]
Dainay       [ 1.60, 2.95] Exhoed        [ 1.95, 4.00] Inayphi  [-75.90,29.30]
Dainay       [ 1.60, 2.95] Phekda        [ 1.50, 5.00] Veethphi [-80.35,0.25]
Dainay       [ 1.60, 2.95] Ross 986      [ 1.85, 1.35] Olcanen  [81.50,14.70]
Dainay       [ 1.60, 2.95] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Edzemi   [71.40,-39.85]
Dainfa       [ 3.15,-6.45] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Inbeex   [77.35,27.85]
Delta Pavonis[-0.90,-1.70] Epsilon Indi  [-0.50,-0.65] Andzeand [75.75,-30.45]
Delta Pavonis[-0.90,-1.70] Exioce        [-0.60,-2.90] Bequan   [78.70,17.75]
Delta Pavonis[-0.90,-1.70] Luyten 205-128[-1.25,-1.80] Mizece   [21.25,-80.30]
Delta Pavonis[-0.90,-1.70] Quexce        [-1.60,-1.80] Bedaqu   [-13.40,79.20]
Delta Pavonis[-0.90,-1.70] Ross 128      [ 0.30,-0.40] Haethda  [59.90,-56.60]
Delta Pavonis[-0.90,-1.70] Ross 986      [ 1.85, 1.35] Inphiur  [61.25,-55.00]
Delta Pavonis[-0.90,-1.70] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Tiinay   [-75.20,32.45]
Edethex      [ 3.25,-2.95] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Tisophi  [-55.35,-60.10]
Edethex      [ 3.25,-2.95] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Begreho  [-59.65,-55.30]
Edlave       [ 2.95,-1.95] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Latifa   [-46.65,-66.95]
Edlave       [ 2.95,-1.95] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Laessay  [55.85,60.35]
Encea        [-1.90, 2.05] Eta Cassiopeia[ 0.00, 2.50] Inolack  [-20.05,81.90]
Enquze       [ 4.45,-2.80] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Candalia [102.25,128.05]
Epsilon Eridani[0.90,0.30] Luyten 97-12  [ 0.90,-1.95] Urgrebe  [82.60,-0.60]
Epsilon Eridani[0.90,0.30] Ross 128      [ 0.30,-0.40] Arethur  [62.80,-53.30]
Epsilon Eridani[0.90,0.30] YZ Canis Minoris [2.25,0.05] Olwada  [16.70,80.70]
Epsilon Eridani[0.90,0.30] Zeanlia       [ 1.60, 1.95] Iozebe   [76.55,-30.70]
Epsilon Indi [-0.50,-0.65] Quexce        [-1.60,-1.80] Iophice  [-60.25,55.40]
Epsilon Indi [-0.50,-0.65] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Uressmi  [70.10,-41.90]
Eridani, 82  [ 1.10,-0.70] Ross 154      [-1.10,-0.30] Edbeeth  [15.10,79.95]
Eridani, 82  [ 1.10,-0.70] Sirius        [ 1.05,-0.15] Laayqu   [82.40,6.85]
Essaa        [ 0.95,-4.90] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Ayliaur  [81.80,7.35]
Essliagre    [ 2.40,-3.75] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Greolar  [70.95,40.80]
Essliagre    [ 2.40,-3.75] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Canvefa  [-71.30,-39.10]
Eta Cassiopeia[0.00, 2.50] Fomalhaut     [-1.15,-0.10] Enaed    [74.40,-31.65]
Eta Cassiopeia[0.00, 2.50] Ioioqu        [ 3.85,-4.60] Ethcanphi[-70.00,-39.65]
Eta Cassiopeia[0.00, 2.50] Lalande 25372 [-0.45,-0.25] Cearce   [80.40,-11.95]
Eta Cassiopeia[0.00, 2.50] Liabeze       [ 1.60,-4.20] Essandeth[-78.85,-20.00]
Eta Cassiopeia[0.00, 2.50] Liaququ       [ 2.35,-2.40] Arayess  [74.80,35.40]
Eta Cassiopeia[0.00, 2.50] Miolze        [ 2.20,-2.65] Aressfa  [-74.10,-32.20]
Eta Cassiopeia[0.00, 2.50] Oltiqu        [-1.50, 3.95] Inenda   [56.10,62.00]
Eta Cassiopeia[0.00, 2.50] Ross 986      [ 1.85, 1.35] Liafaze  [-42.10,-67.75]
Eta Cassiopeia[0.00, 2.50] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Faenol   [-81.85,0.85]
Eta Cassiopeia[0.00, 2.50] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Exedze   [81.05,12.85]
Ethgrece     [ 1.95,-4.75] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Hoceed   [78.90,22.80]
Exbephi      [-1224.85,-852.90] Tau Ceti [ 0.30, 0.40] Aeda   [-801.40,-154.55]
Exbeur       [-3.40, 3.85] Vega          [-2.60, 1.80] Beinfa   [-79.20,-26.75]
Exiool       [ 1.95,-3.75] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Micanack [74.35,34.25]
Exiool       [ 1.95,-3.75] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Arvephi  [-74.80,-32.05]
Exiool       [ 1.95,-3.75] Vega          [-2.60, 1.80] Laphiess [62.40,51.35]
Facece       [ 0.30,-4.05] Sohoa         [ 0.30,-3.65] Andliafa [82.05,-3.60]
Facece       [ 0.30,-4.05] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Phiedur  [82.30,3.75]
Facece       [ 0.30,-4.05] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Laarar   [-81.35,-1.80]
Facece       [ 0.30,-4.05] Vequess       [-0.40,-4.15] Lafacan  [-11.80,76.85]
Famiso       [ 3.35,-4.25] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Entiar   [70.05,43.20]
Faphiwe      [ 2.50,-4.30] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Phiveay  [75.40,32.70]
Fawaol       [ 2.45,-2.65] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Betila   [63.25,52.05]
Fawaol       [ 2.45,-2.65] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Vequcan  [-65.65,-48.00]
Fomalhaut    [-1.15,-0.10] Luyten 205-128[-1.25,-1.80] Lasocan  [-82.80,3.80]
Fomalhaut    [-1.15,-0.10] Ross 154      [-1.10,-0.30] Lacanfa  [78.20,19.80]
Fomalhaut    [-1.15,-0.10] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Ensoda   [-21.25,79.20]
Greayqu      [ 3.15,-2.35] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Enqugre  [-54.85,-59.90]
Gretiay      [ 3.15, 1.70] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Aexar    [-32.55,75.65]
Hobegre      [ 2.45,-5.55] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Qulaur   [78.15,25.35]
Hocancan     [ 1.50,-3.00] Intiol        [ 1.90,-4.00] Zedaar   [-74.20,-33.8]
Hocancan     [ 1.50,-3.00] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Zephila  [74.80,33.30]
Hocancan     [ 1.50,-3.00] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Cemiho   [77.90,25.95]
Hoethcan     [ 3.50,-4.90] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Zelati   [68.95,44.10]
Hoethcan     [ 3.50,-4.90] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Hoquso   [141.65,82.45]
Inedol       [ 3.20,-4.60] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Ayquar   [72.35,39.20]
Inena        [ 3.40,-6.45] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Zemive   [-72.70,-36.60]
Intiol       [ 1.90,-4.00] LP 658-2      [ 2.35, 0.25] Behoar   [83.55,-9.45]
Intiol       [ 1.90,-4.00] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Laandlia [75.40,31.80]
Intiol       [ 1.90,-4.00] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Essessze [77.90,26.10]
Ioarqu       [ 1.90,-2.80] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Arcear   [-71.85,-38.15]
Ioioqu       [ 3.85,-4.60] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Arioand  [-62.30,-52.85]
Ioliaa       [ 1.55,-6.20] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Exedze   [81.05,12.85]
Ioququ       [ 2.80,-3.60] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Zeayur   [70.80,41.70]
Iozegre      [ 3.15,-2.30] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Phiedda  [-54.35,-60.35]
LP 658-2     [ 2.35, 0.25] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Edbear   [3.15,-81.60]
Lacancan     [ 3.40,-6.05] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Phiveay  [75.40,32.70]
Laedgre      [ 2.00,-2.10] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Canveol  [68.90,44.90]
Laesscan     [ 3.85,-2.60] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Anessur[-103.30,-125.95]
Laiogre      [ 4.35,-4.30] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Begreho  [-59.65,-55.30]
Lalande 21185[ 0.35, 0.30] Ross 128      [ 0.30,-0.40] Miurar   [81.95,-5.15]
Lalande 21185[ 0.35, 0.30] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Auray    [73.20,37.40]
Lalande 25372[-0.45,-0.25] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Falaa    [-53.60,61.90]
Liabeze      [ 1.60,-4.20] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Ededeth  [77.60,25.90]
Liabeze      [ 1.60,-4.20] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Ioioack  [-77.80,-23.90]
Liaququ      [ 2.35,-2.40] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Phiayand [-59.40,-55.90]
Liaququ      [ 2.35,-2.40] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Olveve   [-65.10,-48.75]
Luyten 97-12 [ 0.90,-1.95] Ross 128      [ 0.30,-0.40] Laceti   [76.90,28.10]
Luyten 97-12 [ 0.90,-1.95] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Beanfa   [-74.70,-32.90]
Luyten 97-12 [ 0.90,-1.95] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Argreed  [-78.65,-20.80]
Luyten 674-15[ 2.10,-1.00] Maanens, van  [-0.05, 1.10] Miolfa   [-56.20,-58.40]
Luyten 674-15[ 2.10,-1.00] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Edexed   [-39.60,-71.35]
Luyten 674-15[ 2.10,-1.00] Sophilia      [ 3.20,-1.35] Enhove   [-21.35,-79.35]
Luyten 674-15[ 2.10,-1.00] YZ Canis Minoris[2.25,0.05] Ceioeth  [83.25,-12.10]
Miandze      [ 2.60,-5.35] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Ioayess  [-72.75,-37.05]
Miandze      [ 2.60,-5.35] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Inbeex   [77.35,27.85]
Micanex      [ 2.75,-4.30] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Zequess  [71.05,40.70]
Miolgre      [ 2.10,-4.65] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Qulaur   [78.15,25.35]
Miolze       [ 2.20,-2.65] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Arlada   [70.50,42.45]
Olaygre      [ 3.95,-3.50] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Inquol   [62.15,53.95]
Ollaex       [ 1.95,-2.95] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Urayda   [74.60,34.50]
Ophiuchi, 36 [-1.80,-1.15] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Enbeay   [-50.15,64.85]
Phekda       [ 1.50, 5.00] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Esszeand [78.70,-22.10]
Phiagre      [ 0.85,-2.65] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Tisoess  [-79.95,-15.35]
Ross 128     [ 0.30,-0.40] Omicron Eridani[1.50, 0.45] Mienio   [47.95,-66.90]
Ross 128     [ 0.30,-0.40] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Hoarti   [73.40,36.45]
Ross 128     [ 0.30,-0.40] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Eddafa   [82.20,-0.25]
Ross 154     [-1.10,-0.30] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Zecanmi  [33.60,-74.40]
Ross 154     [-1.10,-0.30] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Anayce   [-37.60,72.85]
Ross 986     [ 1.85, 1.35] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Waave    [43.75,-68.90]
Ross 986     [ 1.85, 1.35] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Hoolti   [-41.80,70.50]
Sirius       [ 1.05,-0.15] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Cecanlia [-25.00,-77.75]
Sodaack      [ 1.30,-5.60] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Waethwa  [81.45,10.80]
Sohoa        [ 0.30,-3.65] Sol           [ 0.00, 0.20] Exedce   [81.70,4.50]
Sohoa        [ 0.30,-3.65] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Hovea    [82.00,-1.65]
Sohoa        [ 0.30,-3.65] Vequess       [-0.40,-4.15] Liaandex [46.85,-70.85]
Sol          [ 0.00, 0.20] Sophilia      [ 3.20,-1.35] Ceessess [-33.90,-74.25]
Sol          [ 0.00, 0.20] Tau Ceti      [ 0.30, 0.40] Edbeur   [-68.05,45.40]
Sol          [ 0.00, 0.20] Tivecan       [ 2.30,-3.45] Canedand [-67.85,-45.55]
Sol          [ 0.00, 0.20] Vequess       [-0.40,-4.15] Iocanwa  [81.15,-9.75]
Sol          [ 0.00, 0.20] Waolex        [ 3.60,-4.35] Arioay   [65.95,48.45]
Sol          [ 0.00, 0.20] Wolf 630      [-2.20,-0.75] Zeliaur  [31.25,-75.35]
Sol          [ 0.00, 0.20] Zeancan       [ 1.55,-2.00] Bemiio   [-66.35,-47.60]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Tiacan        [ 2.85,-3.50] Ackgreho [-66.85,-46.30]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Tiancan       [ 4.35,-5.15] Ollaan   [68.40,45.75]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Tiessgre      [ 2.70,-3.45] Zeayur   [70.80,41.75]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Tivecan       [ 2.30,-3.45] Anmiay   [73.80,36.15]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Urlaay        [ 3.15,-2.35] Enqugre  [-54.85,-59.90]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Urquay        [ 4.30,-5.10] Zesoand  [-63.75,-50.40]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Veareth       [ 0.00,-4.65] Arquho   [81.70,-6.70]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Vecanlia      [ 0.00,-5.00] Arquho   [81.70,-6.70]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Vequess       [-0.40,-4.15] Laceti   [80.65,-14.45]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Waarze        [ 3.85,-4.35] Enengre  [-63.65,-50.70]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Waayol        [ 3.95,-5.15] Arlada   [70.50,42.45]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Waceol        [ 2.75,-3.55] Canquar  [70.85,41.65]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Waessol       [ 1.70,-3.35] Zeceeth  [77.65,27.20]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Wainze        [ 3.45,-1.70] Hoexho   [47.40,67.30]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Zeaex         [ 3.35,-1.70] Quayho   [48.05,66.70]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Zeessze       [-0.30, 2.75] Phitiay  [-79.20,-18.65]
Tau Ceti     [ 0.30, 0.40] Zeessze       [ 0.75,-5.70] Veexio  [-162.35,-14.60]
