
Bubble Gun Demo
---------------

This is a fully playable 3 level demo of Bubble Gun by WeatherMine Software,
a puzzle/platform game for all amigas (PAL only).

If you like the demo, then the full 40 level game is available
direct from WeatherMine Software for just £6.00 (£7.00 if
outside the UK).  To obtain a copy, simply send a cheque/PO/IMO
payable to WeatherMine Software to

WeatherMine Software
328 Kingston Rd
Leatherhead
Surrey KT22 7QE
ENGLAND

For information, contact Matthew@mattwms.demon.co.uk 
If you would like to recieve the game via email, then send
£5.00 instead along with your email address, and we will dms/uuencode 
the files and send them to you.



Instructions
------------

You play the part of a crocodile, and your objective is to find 
your way out of each level, eventually winning your freedom.  The game 
contains 40 levels, and on completion of each level a pass word is 
obtained giving access to the next level.

On each level, there is an exit gateway which is opened when you 
pick up the exit key.  The exit key will normally be well hidden, and the 
main problem is finding it.  Once you have the key you just need to 
walk to the exit to complete a level.  However, there is a time limit
within which you must do this, and you also lose energy by coming into
contact with the other creatures inhabiting the level - if you lose all
your energy, or run out of time, you die and have to start the level again.

In addition to the exit key, there are other objects that can be picked up.  
These are normally shown enclosed in a square, and as such can be easily 
recognised.

There are also chests on the levels, which can be opened (by simply 
walking over them) when you hold all three pieces of the key for that 
chest.  This reveals the contents of the chest.  The chest and key pieces 
are colour coded - to open the chest with the green lock requires you to be 
holding the three pieces of green key.  Note that you can only hold three
objects at one time, and the three currently in your possession are 
shown at the top of the screen.


It should also be noted that when you pick up the exit key, it disappears - 
you do not carry it around with you - and the words "exit open" are displayed
at the top of the screen.  When "exit open" is displayed, all you have to do
is walk to the centre of the exit gate to finish the level.

You will also find extra pellets for use in your gun - at the top right 
of the screen the number of pellets you have is shown.  As long as you have 
some pellets, you can shoot bubbles at the other creatures - if you hit one,
it becomes temporarily encased in a bubble, and you must then pop the bubble
by jumping on it to kill the creature.  Stand over the pellets and pull
down to pick them up.

Picking up pieces of fruit and gems (by walking over them) will give you 
points.  Every time you collect 500 points you gain an extra ten seconds
of time.


Controls
--------
The game is controlled via a joystick as follows:
Push LEFT/RIGHT	: run left/right
Push UP			: jump
Pull DOWN		: pick up object (you must be standing over it)
Press FIRE			: fire your bubble gun

Keyboard: P (pause on/off), Q (quit when paused).


The Grid
--------
At the top of the screen the following is shown, from left to right:

Energy: when this runs out, you die!
Exit open/shut: indicates whether or not you have found the exit key.
Score: your score!
Objects held: up to three objects in your possession.
Time: time left.
Pellets: number of bubble gum pellets for your gun.



Special Features
----------------
Some levels contain doorways that will let you pass through to another 
screen - these are normally indicated by a downward pointing arrow.  To pass 
through, stand in the centre of the doorway and pull down on the joystick.

You will also find pressure pads in the floor which activate barriers, 
location transporters (stand in them and pull down) and spaces across which
you must build bridges (by collecting the bridge blocks and dropping them
at the indicated spot).
