QUICK GUIDE to DEAD METAL


**************(Check the last page NEW Dead Metal r)*************************

Welcome to Dead Metal. Your mission General is to capture the RED REACTOR star like ICON
it will not be easy, your plans have fallen into enemy hands and they are ready for you.



Move the YELLOW pointer over one of your units. Your units are identified by having a
RED gun muzzle. A RED or RED+YELLOW circle will show your unit and the YELLOW pointer
will turn GREEN.

Click the left mouse button and the direction pointers will appear. With the arrow icon you
can scroll the map by moving the arrow icon to the top, bottom, left or right of the map.
Now move the arrow icon over your unit and click the left mouse button. The move icon
will now appear. Move over one of the RED direction pointers and click the left mouse
button to move your unit in that direction.

The enemy will now take its move. The YELLOW icon on the top right of the screen
represents each enemy unit. Enemy units have a YELLOW gun muzzle. You will see a
small RED icon move across the YELLOW icon. Each YELLOW line represents an enemy
unit.

The horizontal GREEN, YELLOW and RED icon which moves up as each unit has its move
denotes three things:-

                     GREEN = easy thinking
                     YELLOW = medium thinking
                     RED = hard thinking

You must wait for your move. When it is your move this will be denoted by a pointing hand
at the top left of the screen.

If you moved and have not been destroyed there will be a GREEN icon over your unit. You
will be ready to fire at something. To do this move the mouse fire icon over a target. If you
move it over an enemy unit it will turn RED. Press the left mouse button to fire. At the
bottom left of the screen the RED flashing numbers indicate your fire power and the
flashing YELLOW numbers on the right indicate the defense values of the enemy unit you
are firing at. The RED (1-6max) number must be higher than the YELLOW (1-6max) number in order
to destroy the enemy unit.

Tanks have Armour all around them:-

                     Front Armour value is +5
                     Side Armour value is +1
                     Rear Armour value is -3

Therefore to fire at the front will make it harder to destroy a tank than to fire at the rear.
Also the closer you are the more fire-power you have.


Fire mode is indicated by either a:-

RED square with the sides cut out. Denotes no line of sight and you
cannot fire at that place on the map.

BLACK circle with cross-hairs
You can click the right mouse button to switch between fire mode and scroll map mode to
search for enemy units.


You can decide to move and not fire or stop and fire. To stop and fire click the left mouse
button to bring up the move icon. Move the icon over the middle of your unit and press the
left mouse button. Your unit will now be in stop fire mode. This gives you greater fire-
power. If in stop fire mode you do not wish to fire, move the BLACK cross-hairs icon over
the middle of your unit and press the left mouse button. Your unit will now be in stop mode.
the reason for this is to not give your position away as the enemy can detect the gun flash.


When in fire mode you can fire at whatever you like even if you cannot see any enemy
units So if you think the enemy are hiding in cover move the black cross-hairs over the area
you want to shoot at and press the left mouse button. If any enemy units are hiding there you
may destroy them. Note:- The fire-power and defense value numbers will not be displayed.

When you have finished moving infantry units if they have cover they will have a higher
defense value and turn BLUE or GREEN . Infantry units have bazookas and will use them when
necessary. To use a bazooka against tanks you must get close and shoot at the side or
rear of the tank.

When moving tanks a YELLOW direction pointer means the front of the tank is pointing in
that direction. The direction pointer turns blue when the tank reverses. Reversing uses
more fuel as does moving through different types of terrain. You are allocated a certain
amount of fuel per move. Light tanks are allocated more fuel than heavy tanks. Heavy
tanks look slightly bigger on the screen. Infantry and tank move points are indicated by a
BLUE BLACK icon on the top left of the screen. The RED line will decrease as fuel is
used. You will not see a fuel indicator for enemy units.

Remember icons on the top right of the screen are enemy icons and friendly icons are on
the top left.

The spyglass icon indicates observation mode...Wait

When a unit has finished its move it must miss a move. This is indicated by the YELLOW
move pointer turning RED when over the unit.

The RED horizontal line at the top left of the screen is morale status of the unit you are
using. Low morale will cause many factors to come into play. Morale also applies to enemy
units but enemy morale status will not be displayed on screen.

Anti-tank guns are deadly at close to medium range but are easy to destroy. Anti-tank
guns are represented by cannon icons.

If the YELLOW defense values do not appear in the BLACK oblong box in the bottom right
of the screen then that enemy you are firing at will be destroyed.

A BLACK and RED cross in the YELLOW enemy icon at the top right of the screen as the
small vertical RED line moves across indicates that enemy unit has been destroyed.

When RED EMPTY appears in the fuel points icon at the top left of the screen this
signifies allocated fuel movement points have expired for that unit and must miss one
move.

To win in Dead Metal you have to capture the RED REACTOR ICON on the Battle
field by moving one of your units onto it.

Tip. Do not destroy enemy tanks on a bridge as your tanks will not be able to cross it and
you will have to wait until it stops burning before your infantry units can cross.

Try drag the enemy away from the RED REACTOR icon and flank him
Ctrl+C to end game.


Good luck. You will need it.


NEW  :-

Dead Metal  v2.00
Game DM 5,6,7,8,9
In Game DM 7,8,11 turn fire lines off when in scroll map mode by pressing F9=off , F10=on

03/02/13
NEW :- DEAD METAL  v2.9

Game (DM11 r) has a random start each time you play.

When the Battel has been won check the ram disk for pic of battel in iff format
and send it to me at fastmancol@yahoo.co.uk (Please send  all your wining Battle pics  in jpg or iff Format)
it will help me a great deal to improve my game DEAD METAL.


 Thanks for playing.

                        Colin.













