  For the first section of the game, look in pages 8 and 9 of your Space
  Piston book and follow the walk-through provided.  When you have followed
  the walk-through successfully you will find yourself in the sewers.  From
  here:
  Sewer Room:
  Go to the table and get the jar.  Look under the pad on the table and
  press the button that is there.  When the picture show has finished, go
  to the large contraption to the left of you and turn the handle.  The
  door will open, enabling you to go inside.  Do so now.  You are now in
  the sewers underneath Xenon.  Move to the left hand side of the sewers
  and move down.  A little thingie will start to follow you.  Let it follow
  you until the bottom screen, wait until it gets near you and use the jar
  to scoop it up.  Now quickly get out of the way and wait until the slime
  has gone.  Go from here to the ladder and climb up.  Go to the screen to
  the left and here you will find a spaceship.  Climb into the landing gear.
  Main Computer:
  Save the game now, in case you muck the next couple of commands up.  Go
  to the right hand screen and a time pod should appear.  Quickly get into
  it.  When you are inside, enter any combination you like, but note down
  what you entered.  You might like to try different combinations.
  Space Quest 10:
  When you land, get out of the pod and walk around a bit.  Go left - you
  will see something down the path, so go back to the time pod and take the
  path near it.  A large bird comes along and picks you up.  Oh dear!  When
  your in its nest, wait until one of the evil guards drops in, then search
  him and you'll find a piece of paper.  Go to the hole in the nest and click
  on it with the Hand icon to go through it.  In the next screen you will
  meet some nice young ladies.  Get into the sub.  When you get to the
  hideout, wait until a slug turns up.  When the slug tries to eat you,
  press the button that activates the lasers on either side of the chair.
  Now get one of the oxygen tanks and shove it into the slugs mouth.
  Shopping Centre:
  Pick up the card that the girl has dropped, then get on the walkway.
  Go to the Men's clothing shop and talk to the droid there.  When you
  have your new clothes, pay the man.  Next, go to the Mamolith burgers
  and ask the Pig there for a job.  You can do the arcade bit if you want
  to, but it isn't compulsory.
  From here, go back to the place where you came into the shopping centre
  and get the cigar.  Now go to the cash machine, which stands next to
  the software shop.  Use the card you picked up in the machine.  It
  won't work.  Now go to the ladies clothes shop and talk to the droid at
  the desk - she should give you some clothes.  Pay for the clothes and
  go back to the cash machine.  Now you can use the card and get some
  money out.  Go into the software shop and look in the bargain bin to
  get the Space Quest hint book, which should be underneath the other
  software.  Pay for the book and then look at it.  Use the stick icon
  to reveal the answers.
  Go from here to Radio Shock and look at the catalogue.  Look at the
  electrical gadgets and go through them until you come to the adaptor for
  the Pocket pal.  Get the adaptor which is at the bottom right of the
  screen.  Now go back to the ladie's clothes store and into the changing
  rooms.  Get dressed.  When you have finished, go to the arcade.  Go
  over to the Ms Astro Chicken and insert a buckazoid.  Play the game
  as many times as you want.  After a while the game will blow up.  A
  time pod should appear.  When a soldier comes after you, just leave
  the screen and go to the zero gravity skate place.  Go to the top of
  this and wait for the guard to come after you.  From here, dodge the
  guard and go back to the arcade.  Get into the time pod.
  To work out where to go, take the codes that are in the hint book and
  type them out.  Then type in the code that is written on the piece of
  paper you found.
  Space Quest One:
  Go to the bar, where you'll find some nice people.  When you've been
  thrown out, kick over the bikes.  Now go back to the bar, but on the way
  there, jump out of the way of the biker.  In the bar, get the matches
  from the bar table.  Now go back to the Time Pod - but you'll have to
  jump out of the way of the bikers again.  When you're in the time pod,
  go back to the start of the game.
  Start of the Game:
  Go to the far right-hand side screen.  Use the acid on the door lock.
  When you're in the tunnel, use the matches on the cigar.  This should
  show you where the lasers are.  Now go to the Bunny, look at it and
  take the battery out of it.  Put the battery in the computer.  Look
  at the panel on the wall and type in any number you like.  The best
  way to get the lasers in line is to experiment.  I found that using
  100 each time sometimes works.
  When you've managed this, go to the room to the north.  You'll now
  be in the main computer.  Wait till the droid appears from the left,
  then go back to the previous screen.  Go back to the main computer.
  By now, you should have given the droid the slip.  Go from here down
  the left-hand path until you come to another room with a control panel.
  Now use the numbers given in the hint book to open the door.
  Go into the next room.  You should now be given a screen with lots of
  objects on it.  Move all the objects onto the toilet, but not the
  SQ4 one.  Now leave here and goto the main computer.  If you can't find
  your way back, use your computer with the sockets that are around the
  place.
  When you get to the main computer to fight with Vohal, Move your man
  with the cursor keys or joystick.  Move to the middle of the platform
  to fight, and after a while, you should be able to get him into the
  middle of the screen.  When you've done this, go down the ladder.
  When you come back up, a disc will be in your inventory.  Click the
  disc icon on the disc drive.  When the picture of the screen appears,
  click on Upload beam, then Upload disc, then use the arrows to change
  the arrow to Roger Jnr and click on Download beam.
  You have now downloaded Vohal and finished Space Quest IV!
