ADAPTING HUGO FOR ANOTHER LANGUAGE
----------------------------------

Hugo has been receiving more and more attention from users wanting to
work in languages other than English, so it is both timely and appropriate
that several enhancements to Hugo and its libraries accommodate this.  Of
course, there are certain problems inherent in that the language (and in
particular the libraries) are so heavily dependent on the form and
substance of English, the language of development, but a number of
guidelines may make the task easier:

1.  Hugo now supports accented characters.  (Refer to the section in 
the manual on Printing Text.)  As a result, control-character combinations
should be used to print special characters instead of typing them
directly if the keyboard is capable--not all systems will display non-
ASCII characters the same.

2.  Most printed text has been localized in the Message routine, for
HUGOLIB.H, and OMessage for OBJLIB.H.  These are relatively easy to 
change or extend.  Exceptions are in-library debugging messages and text 
printed in other routines whose only purpose is to print text.  These
latter routines may easily be changed, as well.  (A similar message-
printing routine does not exist for VERBSTUB.H, as the routines do 
little else but print text and therefore may be replaced in their
entirety.)

3.  It will likely be necessary to modify routines such as DoInventory,
DoGo, etc., where references are made to words in the command line.  These 
references are to English-language words as given specified by GRAMMAR.G.

4.  The Parse routine will probably require some work in order to accommodate
non-English word order.  An example that comes to mind is the French
translation of "give me the pen".  (Apologies to French speakers reading
this; my knowledge of French is adequate albeit rudimentary.)

        Victor, donnez-moi le stylo

The imperative "donnez-moi" would conceivably need transcription to something
like:

        Victor, donnez le stylo a moi

in order to be matched by the grammar for "donnez", which might be along the
lines of:

        "donnez"
        * object "a" xobject                    DoGive

(Although a porter to another language will undoubtedly have a more 
ingenious--and more correct--solution than mine.)


Adapting Hugo to another language will likely not be an effortless task,
but these provisions should make the task more structured than not.  That
said, the author would like to take this opportunity to get up on a soapbox
to reaffirm his willingness to help out in whatever way he can to make 
Hugo as accessible and flexible to as many users (current and future) as
possible.


Kent Tessman
<as400477@orion.yorku.ca>
