the story so far...
It is the year, uh well sometime in the near future.

The terrorist group known as S.P.I.T. (Society for Particularly Intelligent
Terrorists), made up of numerous power hungry middle eastern countries,
international terrorist groups, and used car salesmen, has been steadily
growing in power and is now causing trouble for much of the world.  Taking
over cities, sinking passenger ships, destroying towns, selling used cars,
porking sheep, everything the world community considers evil.

To counteract the growing threat, the &united nations& has set up a special
task-force of ground and air troops to kick the evil enemy in the posterior.
You are the commander of the Airborn Cavalry, the armed-to-the-teeth
helicopter gunships, the &'Flying Tigers'&!

The big guys upstairs will co-ordinate the operation's combination of ground
and air forces.  You will get orders for certian missions that need to be
accomplished, you will select and arm your flight of crap-kickin tigers
as you prefer, then go off to bash some scumbag heads into juicy pulp.

In addition to your supply of Helicopter gunships, you will also be able to
call on the support of some aircraft from the fighter group, A-10s and F-16s.
You won't be able to fly these, but they'll kick butt along side your guys.
~
info
Flying Tigers is a Dark Unicorn Productions(tm) / Better Concepts Inc product,
Copyright 1992-1995 by Seumas McNally, All Rights Reserved Worldwide.

Disclaimer:  I have done my best to make this program free of bugs, but by
continueing to use it you take all responsibility for any damage it may do.

Flying Tigers was produced with the following products:
Devpac 3, Deluxe Paint 4.5 AGA, Vista, TOME, CText, Final Writer release 3,
MED v3.22, MegaloSound, Imagine 2.0, GfxCon 1.6, and a loaded Amiga 1200
with 50mhz 030 and 6 megs ram.  Tested on A500/A1200/A4000/CD32 and others.

Special thanks to all the D.U.P. members, Shane, John, Michael, Kit, Sean,
and the rest, thanks also to Aaron Fothergill, Douglas Rudd, and Dirk Farin.
The most thanks goes to you, the Amiga User who won't give up, we're
commited to you and the future!

Credits:
&Coding, Graphics, Sound, Music, Design:  Seumas McNally.
&Digitised Voices:  Seumas McNally and Philippe McNally.
&Musical assistance:  Adam Burns.
&Playtesting and ideas:  The D.U.P crew.

EMail the author at  Longbow @ mcd.on.ca  or post to comp.sys.amiga.games.

(Make sure to read the HELP on each menu screen for important info)
