Mission Briefing Help

Read the text for the mission, and look at the two maps.  The top map is an
overview, and gives you a general idea of the terrain you will be flying
over, the bottom is a recon of the Target Area, and shows the exact terrain
conditions.  On the recon map enemies show up as red dots, and friendlies
show up as blue dots.

The primary objective is the main goal, a secondary objective can be passed
over if the situation requires it.

The "sightings" text tells you what Enemy, Enemy Air craft, and Friendly
troops are known to be in the area.

Selecting <Arming> will take you to the arming screen, where you can equip
your flight and fly the mission.

<Skip Mission> will skip that mission and take you right to the debriefing
screen, skipping a mission can be detrimental to an operation so use it only
if you really need to skip for some reason.

<Main Menu> will take you back to the top, from there you can change options
in the options screen, and resume the current game by selecting return.
~
Enemy Forces

&Fixed or mobile AA guns- these are your basic ground based anti-aircraft
machine guns, shooting shells up to hit you.  They are easy to kill.

&ZSU-23- cross between a mobile AA gun and a light tank, may radar track you.

&Fixed AAA gun- anti-aircraft-artillery, this gun fires shells that explode
into flak around you, stay low and destroy it quickly.

&Radar sites- small semi-mobile radar installations, usually surrounded by
fixed SAM launchers.  You can avoid radar by flying very low, keeping a hill
or building between you and the radar, or just blowing up the site.

&Fixed SAM- radar guided SAM launcher, their missiles only track as long as
there is a radar lock on you from a radar site.

&SA-7 squad- plain old group of troops with hand launched IR SAMS.

&Rapier SAM- fixed IR guided SAM launcher.  These can track targets even
down at ground level, are primarily used as Airbase defences.

&SA-6 mobile SAM- a lightly armored mobile SA-6 radar guided SAM launcher,
it comes with it's own radar tracking system.

(Continued)
~
more enemy forces

&Gopher SAM- lightly armored mobile IR guided SAM launcher, much like Rapier.

&Truck- just your plain old everyday truck, may be either a small army
transport truck or a larger fuel tanker truck (it blows up easily).

&T-80 Tank- main battle tank, strong armor, best weapon against it is a
Hellfire, though enough rockets or chaingun rounds can kill it.

&BMP-2 APC- main enemy armored-personel-carrier, it carries light IR SAMS
(like the SA-7 squads) but doesn't have very good armor.

&Train- a diesel engine and/or train cars, not much of a threat.

&Submarine- a sub on the surface, it will fire light IR SAMs at you if you
get too close, and it is tough to sink, so be careful.

&AN-72 Coaler- troop/cargo transport.  If one of these is up it'll often be
dropping paratroopers on your positions, it has no weapons but is strong.

&KA-34 Hokum- nasty helicopter gunship, a real flying tank.  They often fly
in packs, so be careful.  Use sidewinders to dispatch them.

&Mig-29 Fulcrum, fast fighter jet, stay low and behind cover and you'll be
ok, shoot it when it flies past.  Calling an F-16 is a good idea.
~
Friendly forces

(not counting aircraft, read arming screen help for info on them)

&M1A1 Abrams- this is your Main Battle Tank, the spearhead of our side's
ground forces.  It can take on a T-80 any day, and will smush a BMP-2.

&M2A1 Bradley- the main armored-personel-carrier, it's fairly light armored
but it can carry troops, some missions will have these delivering friendly
troops and some will have your Blackhawks doing the same.

&Troop Squad- a group of friendly troops, they'll either be out fighting
with the rest of the ground forces or be in a position to be transported.

&Truck- a friendly or neutral transport truck.

&Train- diesel engine and/or cars.

&C-130 Herculese- troop or cargo transport, often these will be making
paratrooper drops into enemy territory.

&Misc/unknown- a mixup or the scouts caouldn't identify something.

&F-16 Falcon- (special case) sometimes the fighter wing will want to bomb a
target and they need you to clear a path at and around the target area, in
this case an F-16 with a mission to bomb a target will already be in the
air, you just have to kill the threats and lock onto the target for him.
