mission setup Help
On the left is the available forces list, from there you select what
aircraft you want to use in the mission.  Their damage is a percentage.

The right is a list of what is selected, your helicopter, up to two
wingmen, and an optional air support.  You must select at least one heli.
To remove an a/c, click on it once to select it, then click on it again.

The bottom right is the weapons available and loaded list.  The left is all
the weapons available, the right shows which weapons are loaded where on the
currently selected aircraft.  To change the loadout, click on a weapon type
on the left so it is selected, and then click on a hardpoint to the right
to put it on the aircraft, the weapon type (if any) that was already on that
hardpoint will then become selected (to make shifting around weapons
easier).  To empty a hardpoint, click on it with no weapon selected.  To
have no weapon selected, click once on the currently selected weapon type in
the weapon list on the left.

Click Fly mission to kick some butt, or Briefing to go back.

Available Weapons:
&Chaingun- very close range, not too much power, fast rate of fire
&Hydra Rockets- medium range, decent power, poor against tanks or bunkers
&Hellfires- long range, laser guided, use for tanks and bigger buildings
&SideArms- long range, radar seeking, fire when green diamond sight comes
&SideWinders- best air-to-air weapon, fire at red diamond sight on aircraft
~
available Aircraft types
&Apache- this is the biggest and toughest bird you've got, and it carries
more weapons than any other.  It's not as fast as some, and it's easy for
the enemy to hit.  Use it to pack a punch.

&Comanche Gunship- this bird is fairly stealthy, and quite fast.  It carries
a few less weapons than an Apache, but is harder for the enemy to hit.  This
is the best air-to-air helicopter you've got.

&Comanche Scout- very stealthy, most shots fired at it miss, but since it
doesn't have wing pylons it carries less weapons.  Use it if you've got
softer targets and don't want to be seen or hit much.

&Blackhawk- transport heli.  It's slow, it drives like a brick, and it gets
killed easily, but it can carry troops.  Always have wingmen as cover.

&Super Cobra- older helicopter, it's as fast as the Comanchies but not as
stealthy, a decent gunship or wingmen in a pinch.

&Defender- this heli isn't too fast, it's hard to control, and it carries
almost no weapons, but due to it's small size it's very hard to hit.

&F-16 Falcon- air support only, carries Sidewinders and shoots at bogeys.

&A-10 Thunderbolt II- air support again, uses chaingun and hellfires to shoot
at ground targets until it's too beat up and goes home (or is blown up).
~
In-flight status display
The bar gauges:
&AR = Armor, how beat up your bird is, it goes down as you're hit or on fire.
&EN = Engine, this bar goes down as your main engine gets damaged.
&FL = Fuel, how full your fuel tank is, don't run out!

The systems damage displays (on the far left) turn yellow if a system is
damaged, and red if the system is non-functional or destroyed.
&ENGN- Your engine is hit and usually on fire, very bad, head home quick.
&WEAP- Weapon control systems, if damaged weapons sometimes won't fire.
&RADR- Radar display system is damaged or destroyed.
&CONT- Controls, your bird won't respond as well, and/or fly-by-wire is dead.
&LASR- Laser targetting is hit, Hellfires won't track well or at all.
&EJCT- Ejection systems, it'll be harder or impossible to eject.

The Radar Display is the blue screen at the top of the panel, you are the
white blip, enemies are Red, and friendlies are Green.

Warning lights:  (under the radar)
&Top left- the enemy radar light, it displays "AAA" if an AA(A) gun has
painted you, "AIR" for an aircraft, and "SAM" for a radar sam site.
&bottom left- "crash" is displayed here if you are heading for death, if
your heli has fly-by-wire (apache and comanches only) it should save you.
&"RA MSL" is displayed in the top right if a Radar missile is heading to you.
&"IR MSL" is shown in the bottom right if an IR missile is fired at you.

&"CHF" and "FLR" tell you how many Chaff and Flare cartridges are remaining.
