



Myst the whole solution,walktrough


Playing guide
General tips
Most devices on the island are there for a purpose.
If you see a switch, flip it. If you see a button, press it.
Take note of what happens. Did something change on the screen?
Did you hear anything? Usually this triggers an event somewhere else on
the island.

Several devices require a combination of symbols, letters,
or numbers to be entered in. If you have not discovered the combination,
don't waste time guessing. Find the combinations first.

Maps to each Age can be found in the library.
You may want to copy them down in your Myst journal before transporting.
You can hold only one red or blue page at a time.
Clicking on a new page will cause the page you are holding to return to
its original location. Similarly, only one red or blue page can be returned
to Myst at a time. You may have to revisit various Ages to get additional
pages.

it is impossible to get permanently trapped; there is always a way out.

¤ Remember to save your game. You may want to use multiple saves,
especially towards the end, as there is no telling what might happen.

Either Sirrus or Achenar will give you the key to the vault behind the
fireplace. If not, you need to return more pages to them.

Discovering Myst
Find the note from Atrus and go to the chamber by the dock.
Use the dimensional imager to discover what marker switches look like.
Travel around the island and count the number of marker switches
(this should be eight). Enter that number into the dimensional imager to
receive the message from Atrus. You may listen to the message as often as
you like.

Exploring the library
Red and blue Books. Place the pages in the books to receive messages.
Select the book again to replay messages.

Paintings. The left painting opens a secret passageway to the observatory
tower. The right painting opens the door to the outside.

Bookcase. Most of the books have been destroyed apart for a few which are
still legible. Each book describes a different age which the author has
created. Write down any information that you feel will be valuable later on.

Island Map. This controls the observatory tower rotation.
The marker switches allow the island structures to become visible on the map.

Observatory tower. The access keys to each Age can be found here.
Click on the observatory icon until the rotation line turns red.
The red line will lock onto structures that contain transport books to
different Ages.

Observatory tower
Click on the bookcase picture to open a secret passageway to the tower.
Inside you will find two ladders marked by book and key icons. Climb the
book ladder to view the structure that contains the transport book.
Climb the key ladder to find the access key for that Age.

>From Myst to the Selenitic Age
The access key is a voltage number. To open the spaceship,
the proper voltage must be generated by the power station.
The voltage required is 59 volts.

Inside the power station is a panel that controls ten generators.
Click on each one and mark down the voltage that is generated.
By pressing the right combination of buttons, the voltages will add up
to the target voltage. If too much power is generated, one of two circuit
breakers will trip, causing the right gauge to fall to zero.
You must then go outside to check which breaker tower has the thrown switch.
There is a tower just outside the power station, and one close to the ship.
The switch will be down if the breaker is thrown.
Push the switch up to reset. The power station generators to start
(from the top down) are: left row, one and three; right row: three and
four or one, two, four, and five.

Go inside the spaceship and play the keyboard notes according to the
sequence found in the Selenitic Age book.
Listen to each tone and match it with the tuner sliders on the opposite
end of the ship. Select the animation to be transported to the Selenitic Age.
Following are the keys to play on the spaceship keyboard,
simply follow the numbers for the correct sequence
(W -- white key, B -- black key):

W B W B W B W W B W B W W B W B W B W W B W B W W

Selenitic Age
You will first discover an elevator.
To gain access, you must enter the proper combination of sounds into the
activation panel.

There are five transmission antennas and one receiving station on the island.
At each antenna you will hear distinct sounds. The red buttons activate
microphones that will transmit these sounds to the receiving station.
Take note of the symbols that illuminate at each station.
You may come across a red or blue page. Click on the page to pick it up,
but remember, only one page can be brought back to Myst at a time.

The receiving station degrees rotation are: Water, 153.4; Fire, 130.3;
Clock, 55.6; Tones, 15.0; Wind, 212.2.

After all five antennas have been activated,
go through the wind tunnel to the receiving station.
Here, you must aim each camera at the transmission antennas.
When done, press the sum button. This will give you the proper order of
sounds to enter into the elevator activation panel.
The elevator sound sequence is: Tones, Water, Wind, Fire, Clock.

Take the elevator to the MazeRunner vehicle and get in.
The speaker panel sounds indicate which direction to take. Combinations of
sounds indicate in-between directions (Northeast, for example).
If you get lost, the backtrack button will move you back towards the
correct path. MazeRunner controls are North (bell sound or ting),
West (bird sound or chirp), East (air brake sound or sproing), South
(bell or clunk). The MazeRunner path is N, W, N, E, E, S, S, W, SW, W, NW,
NE, N, SE.

At the end of the tunnel is a book that will transport you back to the
Myst library. Once inside, place the red or blue page into its
corresponding book and listen to the message.

>From Myst to the Stoneship Age
The access keys are dates which must be entered into the
Planetarium Star Plotter. Turn out the lights, enter the dates,
and copy down the constellation formations. Go to the library,
look up the constellations in the Stoneship book, and find the
symbols associated with each constellation. The dates are October 11th 1984,
10:04 am; January 17th 1207, 5:46 am; November 23rd 9791, 6:57 pm.

Now go to the fountain just outside the library.
Click on the marker pillars that display the constellation symbols you
have found. (They are green when on and red when off.) Pillar switches:
Leaf, Snake, Insect. The ship model will rise in the fountain,
as will the ship at the dock. Inside the ship at the dock is a book that
will transport you to the Stoneship Age.

Stoneship Age
At the umbrella crow's nest are three buttons that pump water from
different areas on the island or ship. Left pumps out the book room,
middle pumps out the Stoneship tunnels and right pumps out the lighthouse.

Pump water out of the lighthouse. You will find a key bolted to the
floor and a chest down below. Drain the water from the chest and close
the spigot. Pump water back into the lighthouse. The chest will now be
floating close enough to the key to open. Inside the chest is another key
which will unlock the trap door to the lighthouse tower.

Once inside, you will find a generator with a battery pack.
Crank the generator until the light bar indicates full (red).
This will give you ten minutes to explore the island or ship.

Take the elevated wooden path to the telescope and look around.
You will see a flashing beacon (but only if the generator is fired up).
Take note of the compass degree of the beacon.

Pump water out of the Stoneship tunnels.
Look for the red and blue pages in each of the brothers' rooms.
(You may also find a half page.)

Hidden in the tunnels is a secret passageway that leads to a giant compass.
The compass activates the lights in the ship's aft. Push the button that
corresponds to the degree angle of the flashing beacon. Press the button at
135¡ (twelfth button clockwise from the North). If you press the wrong one,
the lights will go out, and you will have to recharge the generator again.

Pump water from the ship's aft. Downstairs is a book that will
transport you back to Myst.

>From Myst to the Mechanical Age
Go to the clock tower on the opposite end of island from the library.
Use the wheels to set the time to the observatory clue.
The large wheel advances the minutes hand, the small wheel advances
the hour hand. Set the clock to 2:40.

Once inside the clock tower, use the levers to set the combination
to the observatory clue (set the combination to 2-2-1).
Pull and release the left lever to rotate the bottom two gears.
If you pull and hold the lever down, both gears will turn once,
but only the middle gear will continue to turn. The right lever operates
the same way for the top two gears. On the far right is a lever that resets
the puzzle.

When completed, go to the giant gears near the dock.
Inside the gear is the book that will transport you to the Mechanical Age.

Mechanical Age
You will first discover a metal platform. To gain access,
you must enter the proper combination of symbols into its activation panel.
First symbol -- horseshoe; second symbol -- triangle rectangle triangle;
third symbol -- circle over three triangles; fourth symbol -- half circle.

The centre of this island is a mechanical fortress which can rotate on
its axis. To get to the other islands, you must rotate the fortress using
the controls inside. Practice with the fortress rotation simulator in
Achenar`s room to get your timing right.

In-between the two brothers' rooms is a passageway.
Press the red button to lower the staircase to get to the elevator control
panel. Use the handle to align the circles until there is an opening
(circles will turn red). Go back up and raise the staircase.
Enter the elevator and press the up button. When the door opens, press
the middle button and step outside.

Use the controls to rotate the fortress. Go outside and search the islands for clues that will help you get back to Myst. Remember to bring back a red or blue page. Look carefully by each throne.

>From Myst to the Channelwood Age
Go to the cabin on the island. Enter the combination (724) into the safe as found in the observatory clue. Use the matches to light the pilot on the furnace. Position your cursor in the middle of the wheel (until it turns clockwise green) and click to crank up the furnace. This powers the tree elevator and will bring it to above ground level. Wait until you can no longer hear the elevator moving upward. Now turn the furnace off (counter-clockwise red) until the fire goes out. Quickly go outside and turn back towards the cabin. Move to the right of the cabin between the two large trees. You will see a giant tree with an elevator moving downward. When the elevator reaches ground level, click to move inside. Wait for the elevator to take you to the Channelwood transport book.

Channelwood Age
Here you must channel water to power up various devices on the island.
Go inside the windmill to the water tank. Click on the nozzle to open the
pipe (counter-clockwise) and head back towards the trees.
You should now hear water flowing through the pipe.

There is a junction box at the first fork that controls the flow of water;
the yellow dots indicate direction. Channel water to the elevator on the
right. Step inside, close the door, and move up to the second floor.

Here, you must search for a red lever that opens the door to the wooden
staircase. A map to this level can be found in the Channelwood book in
the Library. Once open, the elevator from the first to second level is no
longer needed, so you can use that water to power another device.

Channel water to the elevator at the top of the stairs, and take
the elevator to the third level. Look for the red and blue pages.
(You may also find a half page.)

Travel back to the water level and channel water to the motor on the far left.
This will activate a water bridge. Cross the bridge and head to the right.
To power the elevator found here, you must complete the section of missing
pipe. Turn the crank to extend the pipe. Go back and channel water through
this pipe to the elevator. This will bring you to a book that will take you
back to Myst.

>From Myst to Dunny
Place your last page in the red or blue book and listen to the message.
If you have placed enough pages into either book, you will be instructed
to enter the correct pattern into the fireplace vault.

To access the last Myst book page in the vault, turn on all marker
switches then turn off the one on the dock.

Access to the last blue and red pages and the Dunny book:
enter the pattern on page 158 of the green book on the far right of the
book shelf in the library.


thnx sunny.sylvana@tip.nl
