3. November 1994
(C) Joona Palaste



                The Lost Description Files for
                the Levels of Wizball!


As you all may know, the mighty programming gurus Sensible Software have
written a truly excellent game known systemwide as WIZBALL. It is available
for many computers, and I personally think the C=64 version is the best.
But! Due to some malevolent distruption in the delicate structure of space-
time, documents on the game's eight levels' names and descriptions never left
Sensible Software's hands to contact the wide world. This is a terrible
tragedy for all true Wizball fans like me, so to satisfy the hunger for level
descriptions, I have personally written up names and short description stories
for all eight levels. They may differ from whatever Sensible Software had in
mind, but they are good nonetheless. If someone wants to write his/her/its own
version of these documents, please feel free to do so. My descriptions are by
no means the the absolute law. But now, let's read the descriptions...



        Level 1: Mor the deserted planet

Mor never was, in fact, a populated planet. Its distance to its sun was far too
great for any form of intraterrestial life to evolve. However, many living
entities frequently visit Mor, and the lesser hoodlums of the Great System use
it as their hiding and meeting site. Acts of cleansing have failed due to lack
of general interest. There is no vegetation on Mor, and the planet is very
poor with valuable minerals, however the beautiful stone structures never cease
to amaze and amuse tourists.
The Tourist Agency for Eccentrics has included Mor in its network, and because
of that, built passages up to the city of Zeli.



        Level 2: The city of Zeli

The city of Zeli was built to honour the goddess Zeli, the chief deity of the
ancient people. Legend says Zeli hates everything decorative and superfluous
and prefers effectiveness over beauty, due to which the city includes many
fascinatingly elaborate devices, which many cultural races nowadays use. Some
information sources claim that the temple is now inhabited with a religious
tribe known as the Children of Zeli, who wish to follow in their ancestors'
footsteps.
The ancient people have even included in their constructions passages down to
Mor and up to the world of dreams.



        Level 3: The world of dreams

There has always been a world of dreams, though not always in this very form.
This particular world of dreams was born when a little human child dreamed up
his own paradise. When the child matured, the world of dreams became concrete,
and nowadays attracts many visitors due to its natural beauty. Since the
gravity in the world of dreams is freely variable, structures can float in air
in curious formations.
The child's wakening from his sleep caused passages down to the city of Zeli
and up to the wheat fields to appear.



        Level 4: The wheat fields

The wheat fields are vast. Their total area is greater than that of an average
planet. Amazingly, very few beings live on the fields, for they are not needed
to control them. The wheat tries to take care of itself, in which it usually
succeeds. The lack of maintenance and supervision attracts pests and criminals.
The fields are the main food source of the Great System. Many institutions buy
their wheat directly from the fields.
For export of the wheat, passages down to the world of dreams and up to the
temple of Stagm have been constructed.


        Level 5: The temple of Stagm

The temple of Stagm was built to honour Stagm, who is the equivalent of a devil
in the ancient people's mythology. The temple is very small, because very few
ancient people wanted any part in constructing such a foul temple, and thus the
temple had to be kept small due to lack of workforce. However nowadays people
take religious matters less seriously, and people have started to like Stagm
and his followers again.
Foreseeing events of this type, the ancient people have decided to include
passages down to the wheat fields and up to the ice caverns of fear.


        Level 6: The ice caverns of fear

The ice caverns of fear are a cold, hostile place. No beings live there in any
form of permanent residence and very few even visit them, because it is so cold
there. The greater thugs of the Great System use the caverns as their hiding
and meeting place. Acts of cleansing have failed due to far too hostile
conditions. It is a shame that the caverns are so hostile and deserted, for
they contain many fascinating ice structures.
On the ground, some of the ice has melted, creating passages down to the temple
of Stagm, and up to Unspace.


        Level 7: Unspace

Some beings say Unspace is a boring place. To other beings it is very
fascinating. It is not clearly known what Unspace actually is, but the most
accurate analyses show that it consists of all the matter which was permanently
lost in other places, and has sculpted itself into beautiful forms in Unspace.
Some beings have even been reported to intentionally lose matter in a place,
and then travel to Unspace to enjoy the matter there.
All disused passages in other places have here evolved into passages down to
the ice caverns of fear, and up to Mysteria.


        Level 8: Mysteria

There is no official coverage on Mysteria. In fact, according to the head of
the Great System, it does not even exist. However, daring explorers and
adventurers claim to actually have been to Mysteria. Their speech is tainted
with rumour, but it seems that Mysteria includes giant bubbles. These may float
on top of a form of solid floor, but mostly the structure of Mysteria is so far
unknown.
The explorers and adventures say that they have departed from this place via
passages leading down to Unspace.

