
Setup option: Hints
When enabled you will be reminded of a game feature each turn.


A random hint will be shown at the spellselection phase
of the first human player,
and will wait for a mouseclick or keypress.


This is something anyone who has played the game for a longer time
can contribute to.

Each hint can be -anything- about the game,
ranging from something simple,
like:
"After selecting a creature in your movephase, you can leave the creature where it is by clicking on the right mousebutton."
to something most players never knew about,
like "Nothing really happens at the board update phase, it is just there to make the game cooler."

It could say something about a very old or a very new feature.

A hint could also have a Qustion, and 1 or more answers, like in the FAQ.


What should -not- be in a hint is advanced or personal strategies,
but simple strategies can be mentioned,
like "You can cast inanimate objects inbetween other objects infront of the enemy to block their path towards you or your creatures."


Each hint will be a separate tutorial file
put in a dir called Tutorials/Hints/English.

An independent tutorial file, because:

-You can use the features of the tutorial language, like hiliting or coloring a word.

-Easier to support,
 coz James can just select a random file and then simply run it as a tutorial.

-We don't have to send, receive,
 or otherwise manage 1 single file of hints among ourselves.

-Easier to check for bugs.


A hint file can be called anything.
Should ofcourse be something similar to what the hint says.
Keywords in example.


The translated hint files will be put in the respective language dir
located in Tutorials/Hints/



I think James will definitely implement this.
Atleast if we all make more than 50 hints.
Though theoretically I think it is possible to make more than 200.

I have currently made:

-a template hint file for you to just insert a hint and your name.

-a template file with examples
 of using some of the features in the tutorial script language.

-Some hints.
 I will probably make lots more hints.


When you have completed 1 or more hints
then send them all to me,
(preferably in an lha, lzx or zip)
where I will see if I can improve them,
Spellcheck and bughunt them.
Joar.Berntsen@tele2.no
