Installing the game
-------------------
Insert the CD Trapped II to your CD-Rom Drive and select the Trapped_Start
Icon with a double click.

You will be asked for a path where the game should put the saved game.
The saved game will need about 6MB of free harddisk space and it is
neccesary that you enter the !!full path!!, this means pressing the
'Volumes' Button first and then enter the savepath.

The you will enter the Startup-Menu:

Startup-Menu
------------

Start a new game        Load old Game

Gfx_Mode                Menu Mode
( ) OCS/ECS             ( ) Standard Pal
( ) AGA                 ( ) Double Pal
( ) Grafitti
( ) Picasso96

Precalculations
( ) Filtering           ( ) MipMapping

              Animation_Mode
                ( ) on/off

Select Start a new game if you want to start a new game, this will
delete your old saved game.
If you have started a new game you will be asked at which skill level
you would like to play Trapped II. Your possibilities are:
Beginner, Adventurer and Hero. This means the easiest is Beginner and
the most difficult way to play Trapped II is if you are a Hero.

The Gfx_Mode you select will be use by the 3D-Engine. Supported Modes are
OCS/ECS/AGA/Grafitti Card/Picasso96 drivers. If you want to play with
a Cybervision3D you will have to install the P96Emul.library and then start
the Game in Picasso96 mode.
For Graphic cards you will need the Picasso96 Drivers, which are available
at the Aminet.

The Menu-Mode is used for the Loading screen, if you have a Monitor which
is not able to display standard pal, choose the double Pal screen.
If you choose DoublePal you need to install the DoublePal driver in your
monitors directory.
(Attention: the 3D-Engine will runs at standard pal (OCS/ECS/AGA/Grafitti)
 even if you have chosen Double-Pal for the menu!)

Precalculations, you can switch some functions of the 3D-Engine, which will
take lots of time in the Engine-startup, this means each Level will be started
much faster, but of course you cannot use MipMapping and Texture-Filtering
then.
(On an 68060/50 those precalculations will take about 7seconds at each
 level-start, if you use an 68020/28 those precalculations can take up to
 60seconds at each level-start, so if you don't have and 68040/68060 you
 should switch them to 'off')

Animation_Mode will toggle the main animations on and off. If you have
the Animation_Mode 'on' you can stop the Animations by pressing the left
mousebutton.


