                              Quake redone Quick
                          Frequently Asked Questions
                              ------------------




(0) Index

(1) What for?

(2) Why... ?
 (2.1) Why isn't there a version for the Mac?
 (2.2) Why is the run slower than QdQwav?
 (2.3) Why did you hide the easter-eggs?

(3) How... ?
 (3.1) How did you time the run?
 (3.2) How did you record the run?
 (3.3) How did you turn it into a movie?

(4) Which... ?
 (4.1) Which utilities did you use?
 (4.2) Which were your sound-sources?

(5) Miscelaneous
 (5.1) Who helped you out with the run?
 (5.2) What's the history behind this project?
 (5.3) Will we see some more stuff from you in the future?

(5) More Questions? 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) What for?

Heh, you've answered that question by yourself already :)

No, seriously - people usually get frightened by that huge QRDQ.TXT, so I
decided to split the seemingly unneccessary stuff from the important stuff.

That's why I've created this small FAQ.

If you're rather refering to the run itself... well, call it destiny :) To get
this far, it also requires a good amount of challenge, fun and spare-time :P


(2) Why is... ?

(2.1) Why isn't there a version for the Mac?

Because nobody volunteered for converting the whole thingie for your platform
yet. If you are experienced in Mac-coding or think you could write an install-
ation-routine which replaces the work of QRDQ.BAT, I'd be very keen hearing
from you!

(2.2) Why is the run slower than QdQwav?

QdQwav is another Nightmare run by the QdQ team, which was released exactly
one year ago and which was 48 seconds faster than QrdQ. The reason for this
run beeing slower is that I did all the major work by myself - talk about
running every single level and refilming them, plus post-producing and testing
the final product. I wanted to make sure that, apart from a few tech-help-bits
by third-party-members, the entire thing was produced by one single person.

This decision had it's disadvantage of course: I couldn't simply focus on the
4-5 maps I play best on, and polish them for weeks like as if working in a
team. It's very hard to optimize such a lot of maps parallely, since once I
improved some of them, I could've improved some of the others as well, due to
the new skills I gained during that time, and so on. The same applies to
recams: tweaking all of those way-too-hectic moves of some of my older ones
would have delayed the (fairly too late) release-date of QrdQ even more, and at
some point I simply had to stop myself tweaking and improving, otherwise I
would've probably never finished the project.

Optimization is a curse.

(2.3) Why did you hide the easter-eggs?

Hehe - because people like that kind of hidden stuff. It's almost tradition at
QdQ to include a secret code in the menu :)

Oh and if you haven't figured it out yet... well, yea ok then you must be
pretty dumb actually :P Anyways, think about the name or rather URL of the
site you've dowloaded this movie from. Or simply check the PAK files. Or the
CONFIG.CFG Quake generates, or... well you've got it by now, right?

Btw if you search for the easter-eggs the lone-standing first-person version
of QrdQ, you won't succeed. I've removed them in order to yield down the file-
size. You will have to get either the movie- or the full-version in order to
access them. So much about the disclaimer ;)


(3) How... ?

(3.1) How did you time the run?

I should probably clarify exactly what I mean when I say that my run of
Quake is performed in 13:11. There are several possible ambiguities to deal
with when timing a demo, particularly one spread across the whole game.

Today, speed-runners have settled on what they think are the most sensible
ways of resolving them and all of them (including me) use QdQstats to record
their demos.

(3.1.1) Timing a regular level

Of course, I use the Quake's built-in timer. In fact, this makes the times
longer than they really are, since the timer starts at 1.39999998 seconds at
the beginning of a demo, however there is a small trick I did NOT use to gain
0.2 seconds there. The times are taken from the intermission screen, i.e.
fractions of seconds are discarded.

Now it can happen, when Quake plays back a demo and the time is _very_ close
to the next second, the timer may tick on to the next second before the engine
reads the time following the start of the intermission, and Quake could
display a time that is one second larger than the time shown when the demo was
originally recorded.

Whether or not it occurs depends on how close to the next whole number of
seconds the demo time actually was, and it also depends on the speed of the
computer you are playing the demo on. An example for this is E4M5, which time
is 0:08.98 - close enough to 0:09 that some computers will display a time of
0:09 when they playback the demo, even if it really is a 0:08 demo.

Fortunately, QdQstats always displays the correct time on the console, and to
give you somewhat of a proof, I kept these messages so that you may have a
look at them by pressing "toggleconsole" once the intermission screen appears.

(3.1.2) Timing START

I didn't make an effort to run the start map as fast as possible, because
there's no intermission screen at the end of it, and you enter it more than
just one time.

(3.1.3) Timing the whole game

Of course, the time for the whole game is the sum of the times for the
individual levels.
Note that you have to follow some rules when making a game run. One of them is
collecting all four runes - this is a must if you want to reach the END level,
and until today I found no trick which would make it possible to skip that
unpleasant part of the game :P

(3.2) How did you record the run?

This run was created by recording a demo for each level individually, since
this made me able to include more tricks and reduce the time. However, I was
very careful to ensure that the finished product really IS a continuous run
through the game. I start each new level with the correct statistics relative
to the previous level, except that the Quake engine always grants you a
minimum of 50 health and a maximum of 100 as well as a minimum of 25 shells,
and disables all powerups whenever you start a new level.

Continuity is very important - it adds a lot of strategy to the game, since
items that one finds in earlier levels can be used in later ones, but those
that one avoids to save time cannot. Many subtle interconnected decisions have
to be taken, e.g. sacrificing 2 seconds at e4m6 to get the rocketlauncher in
order to save even more time in e4m7. If you are interested in the routes of
individual levels, or the history of individual tricks, check ROUTES.TXT
included in QdQwav!

If you find any continuity problems with this demo, *please* tell me. I think
I've double-checked everything double and twice, but there's no 100% guarantee
that no single nail managed to sneak away under my aware eyes ;) Thanks!

(3.3) How did you turn it into a movie?

Since this run does not represent the latest state-of-the-art of speedrunning,
I've decided to refilm the demos to be shown from an independent camera per-
spective, in order to make the run more entertaining for the viewers. To do
that, I used a utility called ReMaic. One writes a screenplay for the level
and uses the tool with it to produce a remade version of the original demo.
See section 4.1 for more information!

Several other changes I made were adding a few additional sound-fx and one-
liners, adapting a modified eyes-model from Scourge done Slick, which makes
the position of an invisible player more obvious for the viewer, make the
player lose various amounts of blood when badly hurt, and finally adapt some
of the models from the DeathMatch Essentials mod as well, to show which weapon
the player is currently holding.

I didn't change anything to mislead you about the play in the demo, of course.
You can always watch the first-person demos if you prefer the Quake experience
you are more used to!


(4) Which... ?

(4.1) Which utilities did you use?

These are the tools I required to produce this movie:

Cool Edit <http://www.CoolEdit.com/>
 Commonly used sound-editor. Features quite a lot of options, and is also
 rather easy to use.

DemoRelise (unreleased)
 Tiny hack that changes a demos starting-statistics relative to those the
 previous level ended with afterwards.

DemTool <http://www.PlanetQuake.com/QdQ/>
 Fairly too much features to be listed here, especially since almost every
 single one became useful to me.

LMPC and DemCut <http://www.PlanetQuake.com/DemoSpecs/>
 To turn a binary demo into an ASCII textfile and to merge demos that were
 recorded on different levels (which came into use whilst producing the egg-
 demos).

QdQstats <http://www.PlanetQuake.com/QdQ/>
 The allmighty QdQstats, including features such as a more precise timer, a
 grenadecounter, cheat-protection and of course the possibility to change your
 starting statistics.

Remaic <http://www.PlanetQuake.com/ReMaic/>
 "Refilm existing movie, altering it's camera" - used to recam the demos from
 an independent camera-perspective.

StrangeUtility <http://www.StrangeCompany.org/>
 Supports MP3 conversion for Quake PAK files. Great help in squeezing the
 filesize!

Ultra Edit <http://www.UltraEdit.com/>
 Cool text-editor which can be used for almost anything. Highly recommended!

(4.2) Which were your sound-sources?

Here's a list of the sounds I used in the movie-version, along with their
sources, in order of appearance. I hope there's nothing illegal with it - to
quote Anthony (QdQ papa and machinima freak): "Hey, it's a free plug, people!"

MAP:      DESCRIPTION     - SOURCE (INTERPRET/ARTIST/COMPOSER)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
menu:     ambient sound   - "Come On Feet" (Quasimoto)
intro:    fanfare         - "Carmina Burana - O Fortuna" (Carl Orff)
          theme           - "Callin the shots" instrumental (Planet Asia)
e1m7:     intermission    - "Get Down Baby" instrumental (Al Tariq)
e2m6:     jukebox         - "Oops!... I Did It Again" (Britney Spears)
                          - "The Real Slim Shady" (Eminem)
                          - "Bad Touch" (Bloodhount Gang)
                          - "Runnin'" (Pharcyde)
e2m6:     intermission    - some beats from the "Mad Lib Remixes" EP (Mad Lib)
e3m2:     zombie-groaning - cut from "The Maggots" (Simon Boswell)
e3m3:     popping sound   - www.SoundAmerica.com (unknown)
e3m4:     knocking sound  - ICQ (ICQ Inc.)
e3m5:     windtunnel fx   - www.SoundAmerica.com (unknown)
                          - Worms 2 (Team 17)
e3m6:     jingle          - "The Unseen" (Quasimoto)
e3m6:     intermission    - "99.9%" instrumental (Jeru The Damaja)
e4m2:     advertisment    - System Shock 2 (Looking Glass Interactive)
e4m7:     intermission    - "Place Of Birth" instrumental (Planet Asia)
end:      Shub-telefrag   - "Tale Of Five Cities" (Peanut Butter Wolf)
credits:  closing sound   - "Defined By The Dollar" instrumental (Encore)
egg5:     e2m4 underwater - "Jaws Theme" (John Williams)


(5) Miscelaneous

(5.1) Who helped you out with the run?

There are different people who helped me out by giving me hints, writing small
tools or just encouraging me. Almost everybody I know through the speed-running
scene would deserve mention, but I'll try to list only the most important ones:

Stefan Schwoon - he wrote the tool which created the (constant) slow-motion
                 used at the end of, err, END. But not only that, he also
                 was a great help ever since I started speedrunning by
                 supporting me with all my projects, helping out with several
                 tech issues, introducing me to new knowledge etc.

                 Without exaggeration, none of my projects (QdQwav, QrdQ, CoT)
                 would have been possible without Stefan's help, nor would my
                 current site "Ill Mind Moves" be. Let it be spoken out
                 officially at this point: Thanks, Stefan!

Anthony Bailey - he was the one who got me aboard the QdQ family back in '99,
                 and during his more active times also a great help con-
                 cerning all that tech-stuff I was so new to. For example the
                 base-skeleton of the menu-code was originally written by him,
                 and we both tried to find a way to implement constant slow-
                 motion without the need of a new .EXE before Stefan came up
                 with his idea.

                 I also think that I wouln't have come very far without
                 Anthony's help, as well as QdQ in general. Big respect, old
                 man! Your idea lives on ;)

Attila Csernyik - he built the menu-map, which does also contain some QuakeC,
                  and wrote the patch which puts the missing loop-marker in
                  the converted MENU.WAV. Due, he also worked as a tester and
                  gave me not just a few hints along my way, similar to his
                  (real-life) friend Peter Horvath. I would have probably
                  never figured several tricks out without the help of these
                  two guys (proper bunny-hopping, the e4m1 curl etc.), which
                  makes their importance for the success of QrdQ obvious.

                  Attila is one of the most talented persons I know, alone by
                  the fact that his talents are so wide-spread: he can code,
                  build and design maps, produce music-tracks and design GUIs,
                  and of course speedrun if he has to :) I guess there's a load
                  of more stuff I'm just not aware of yet ;)

Anthony Oetzmann - he composed the banjo-tune used in e1m7 for me, and does
                   virtually know everything about music and sound-formats or
                   sound-tech in general. I couldn't take as much advantage
                   of his skills as I would have liked, since all that sound-
                   file-dealing over the net is quite bandwidth-expensive, but
                   I can only recommend him judging from what I've experienced
                   during the progress of tRR - very professional working guy.

(5.2) What's the history behind this project?

To be honest, I could write books about QrdQ's history nowadays, but I'll try
to give you a short overview about the developement from the first idea until
the finished product you're holding in your hands.

It was at the end of 1996 when I first saw this awesome piece of software
called "Quake". The first time I played through was on the 486 DX2 of my
brother, and still using keyboard just as everyone else. One thing I remember
really good was talking with a friend on the phone for hours, who played the
game parallely, but on Normal skill - unlike me, as I found Normal skill just
too hard to solve!

Although lacking a proper storyline, Quake somehow got me hooked with it's
moody athmosphere. Unfortunately, it ran very slow on my brothers comp, even
under low resolutions. That's why I started focusing on Duke Nukem 3D instead,
which gave me a great time for more than one year - first off Single Player
wise, and later also in Multiplayer.

It must've been in the beginning of 1998, when Quake 2 saw the light of the
gaming-world, and with it also the first OpenGL cards. This was the point when
I started playing Quake again, finally with halfway-acceptable framerates even
on my poor K5 133! (note: I know the harcore-players among you also played NQ
via the net with their 486 and a 14K modem :) Now it became more and more part
of the time I spent on the computer, and once I had found the neat recording-
function, I was dropped nearly everything else! This was the feature I always
missed in Duke Nukem 3D (and in basically every other Single-Player game as
well) before, since it meant that I could not only claim what I had acchieved
but also proof it with a recording!

The first thing I did straight away was trying to get a first Nightmare 100%
attempt on tape, finishing off in three-hours-something, which was quite a
bad time even for the standards of '98 :P I soon noticed that it requires some
more, new (or rather different) skills to master Quake - but this did only stir
my motivation!

A point of frustration was reached however, once my brother had introduced me
to QdQ and SDA. Well, not completely seriously, but I was (as everybody else
out there) just totally stunned by the awesome play in Quake done Quick and
Quake done Quicker, which he showed me for the very first time. During the next
weeks I found my joy in downloading half of SDA from the flatrate at univer-
sity, and receiving my daily dose of speed by that way :)

However, after the dust disappeared, I decided that I should do 'something
like this' by my own! Even if not faster than QdQr, then at least improving the
19:49 time of the original QdQ run. This was wayyyy cooler than anything else I
had done in any computergame-game before!

Everything started with e1m3. Yonathan's slope-grenadejump was the basic trick
required to complete the first episode in an acceptable time. It was the first
trick I had to spend days, no, weeks until I managed it at a somewhat 'regular'
base. As a start, I was able to yield the times on this map from >1:30 to 0:43,
and supplemented the rest of the episode on the plain, very basic route used in
QdQ_1949. I finished in three and a half minutes, which was still quite slow
but at least "something".

I was still far far away from anything worth showing, tho. The point when I
seriously got started was when I finally managed to do the slope-grenadejump
in e1m4. I had decided to improve Yonathan's run from QdQr as it was known
since QdQlite that the grenade could be thrown much faster than Yonathan did
in his demo - everybody just was too lazy to redo the level on Nightmare skill
with only a small entry on the QdQ improvements page as a reward.

I sent several runs of e1m4 to QdQ, along with an explaination of my plans on
doing my own Nightmare run through Quake. Soon I got reply from both Anthony
and Stefan encouraging me to organize such a project as a general improvement
to QdQ_1635 together with help by the team! Of course I felt very honoured by
that offer, and started mobilising some runners for the project. I didn't drop
my idea of an own run of course - on the contrary, my skills (running- and
technology-wise) got better and better with that task, and finally I made the
step over to other episodes apart from only episode 1.

About half a year later, at the end of 1999, I was finished with the first
complete version of Quake redone Quick. Although I had some troubles with
e2m5, I was very satisfied with the final result, beating my own estimations
by margins, and even improving QdQr by two minutes. The education at QdQ had
shown it's effect, and due to the from-scratch Nightmare runs from SDA lacking
wider popularity and QdQwav still beeing in developement, QrdQ received very
great attention from the gaming community, and loads of positive feedback from
the viewers. It seemed to me as if the major part of people had already been
fans of QdQ itself, but were not too interested in all their other great
projects like running custom episodes, or 100% and Easy runs even. Such, QrdQ
was with all it's thought-to-be-new technics and tricks (compared to QdQr) a
huge success. The idea of refilming it came up with the massive amount of
requests for more.

Cut to december 2000, when I finally got off my feet and started working on a
new, improved and refilmed QrdQ, which took me more than half a year to finish.
I wouldn't have though how time-consuming a recam of 13 minutes footage and
improving every single level parallely can be at that point. Somedays it seemed
like a full-time job to me, but without getting paid of course :P Luckily the
timing was just right not to mess up too much with my new real full-time
education which started in september 2001, or to be more precise while I'm
typing these lines during my first day at work.

Allright, that's a snippet of what comes to my mind at the moment. I won't
probably double-check this section again, since it ought to be authentic and
personal at the same time. I hope it was not too much at once - I mentioned I
could fill books with that topic if I wanted ;)

I hope I don't have forget anything essential, but then again - who cares. It's
all in my memory, even if it will just be feelings someday, and no special
events I can look back to. After all, this section was also created for myself.

(5.3) Will we see some more stuff from you in the future?

Since I'm starting my education and "real" real-life right now, I don't know
how much time there will be left for Quake. I would have some neat ideas, and
also the motivation (although QrdQ pushed my patience pretty much to it's
limits), but the problem, as always, is spare-time. First of all, I'll try to
keep my brand-new site up-to-date, and do something useful for tRR. Time will
tell if I will ever put my hands on such a large project again.


(5) More Questions? 

If you still got questions, send some e-mail to Nagasaki@PlanetQuake.com, and
I'll try to answer as soon as possible.

What I want to avoid is people claiming all I produced was some hacked-up
cheat or something. It isn't. Rather contact me instantly instead of flaming
around without any proof.


***
-[AK]Nagasaki 2001/9/13 (updated: 200/07/26)
http://www.PlanetQuake.com/illMind