THE LIGHT: SHELBY'S ADDENDUM
RELEASE 2.1  VERSION 19960901
-----------------------------

NOTE:  If you are using the SHELBY.GAM file "The Light: Shelby's Addendum"
requires the TADS Runtime version 2.2.0.4 or better to run.

The TADS Runtime is available via ftp from ftp.gmd.de/if-archive/

If your machine does not support this Runtime version please let us know
and we will try to compile the game with an earlier version.  Our e-mail
address is listed below.

REGISTER NOW!!!!!
-----------------

"The Light: Shelby's Addendum" was almost a year in the making.  Careful
attention was paid to the creation of the game world, ensuring that the
puzzles were challenging enough for even the most expert gamers and yet
reasonable enough for novices, and the game was thoroughly tested over a
period of three months to make sure that your gaming experience would be an
enjoyable one.  We think the game is first-rate and we hope you do too.  If
you have enjoyed or are enjoying this game, we encourage you to register.
Doing so lets us know that we're doing something right and will ensure future
quality interactive fiction releases from Illusory Mental Images.

Registration costs only $10 (US) and in return you will receive the
wonderfully helpful "The Light: Shelby's Addendum" hint sheets and game maps.  Registered users are also entitled to a 25% discount on future releases from Illusory Mental Images.

Payment will be accepted by cash or check.  Please make checks payable to
"Colm McCarthy" NOT "Illusory Mental Images" and enclose a note with your
full name and address, as well as the game title you are registering.  It
would be nice if you could tell us where you obtained your copy of
"Shelby's Addendum" too!

Payments should be sent to:   Illusory Mental Images,
                              2539 East Dayton Street,
                              Madison, WI. 53704,
                              USA

Please allow eight to ten working days for receipt of your hint sheets.


ABOUT THE AUTHOR
-----------------

C.A. McCarthy was born in Dublin, Ireland and has been writing interactive
fiction since the early 1980's.  The first two games in his Quest Adventure
series, "Manor Of Madness" (1984) and "Corridors Of The Nethermind" (1985)
were released in the UK to critical acclaim and minor commercial success.
He occasionally writes non-interactive fiction too and his stories, essays
and poems have appeared in numerous publications in Ireland, the UK and US.
He currently lives in the United States where he works as a systems analyst.

BUGS, GRUES & SUNDRY ERRATA
---------------------------

This software (finally) contains no major bugs that we are aware of.  However, if you
are more observant than we are bug reports may be sent to the above address.

LEGAL STUFF
-----------

"The Light: Shelby's Addendum" is issued as shareware.  The game itself is
issued free of charge, and may be freely copied and redistributed provided
that no modifications are made to the executable file and that this file is
included with all copies.  The software may only be redistributed in its
original ZIPped format.

The source and object code to this software may not be modified in any way and
are the sole property of C.A. McCarthy and Illusory Mental Images.  Any
modification of this code is a violation of copyright and will be reported to
the SPA.

The hint sheets and maps for this and all Illusory Mental Images software
products are copyrighted and may not be reproduced in any form, whether
material or electronic.

The plot and all characters contained in "The Light: Shelby's Addendum" are
the intellectual property of C.A. McCarthy and may not be used in other
software products without the explicit permission of the author.

CD ROM/DISKETTE DISTRIBUTORS READ THIS!!!!
------------------------------------------

"The Light: Shelby's Addendum" may be freely distributed on CD ROM/Diskette
provided that:

(a): The file is included in its original compressed format.  If it is not,
     the SHELBY.TXT file must be included with the executable game.

(b): No fee is charged for the CD ROM/diskette on which the game is included.
     If a fee is charged this game may NOT be used without the prior written
     consent of Illusory Mental Images.

(c): Illusory Mental Images and the game's author are not liable for defective
     or infected CD ROMs/diskettes on which the game is included.

(d): Illusory Mental Images reserve the right to release modified versions of
     this software or withdraw it from the market at any time and without
     prior notification.

If in doubt please contact us via the channels mentioned above.
