The Gladiators Of Dagania
Shareware Version 1.00

Readme File

Released 04-23-94

This game, all graphics, music, names, places, characters, etc.,
are copyright 1994 by me, Kit Felice!

This game is SHAREWARE - If you like it, you may REGISTER as an OFFICIAL
PSYCHOSOFT uhh.. Regestree by sending 5 bucks to:

Kit Felice
5902 Galaxie Road
Garland, TX
75044


Regestrees will be among the first to know if-er- I mean WHEN a new version
is made!  Of course, shareware money is a great incentive to finish games!

This game is freely distributable if it is unaltered, and the following
files are always together:

The_Gladiators_Of_Dagania            - The Game
The_Gladiators_Of_Dagania.info       - The Icon
Gladiators.D8A                       - The Game's Data Package
Gladiators.D8A.info                  - Its Icon
Kit's_Maze.Maze                      - A maze
Solid.Maze                           - Another Maze
Read_Me_Or_Don't.TXT                 - This readme file
Read_Me_Or_Don't.TXT.info            - Its Icon


   - System Requirements -

To run this game, you must have a DOS device with enough space to load
it (I.E. a Hard Drive, high density floppy, large RAM disk...)
1 meg of CHIP Ram (And probably some fast ram) is required
You must BOOT your machine in NTSC mode - Pal isn't currently supported

(actually, there's a script file Gladiators.sf which (I think) will load
the game into NTSC mode from another mode. You need degrader for this
to work -Rick Felice :P )

To Load:
The game must be run from the same directory as its data file.
These can be in any folder.

This game is tested and works fine on AGA machines.



   - The Plot -


   The place is Dagania, a distant alien world.  The famous space pirate,
Captain Psycho, has finally been brought to justice by Daganian bounty
hunters, and he's gonna be executed!  To pay for the high cost of criminal
processing, Daganian prisoners are put on planetary TV where the (sick) viewers
at home watch them fight a hopeless battle to the death!  Oh- Did I mention
that here, YOU ARE CAPTAIN PSYCHO?  Details, details...

   You are sentenced to death in an "Arena Of Doom" - A maze on one of the
two Daganian moons picked at random by the authorities.  The first moon has
a rapid rotation rate and day lasts for only a few momemts.  The second
moon does not rotate at all, and you may find yourself on the daylight side
or the night side.

   Your opponents are the infamous Daganian Skullbots.  These fearless
cyborg monstrosities have the living brains of rabbid, drugged, wild animals
and the steel bodies of robots.

   Skullbots will kill anything they see.  They are equipped with night
vision, an arm-mounted laser cannon, and infa-red detectors similar to that
of a pit viper so they can track their prey by the heat left from
footprints.

   You, on the other hand, are an old, fat Daganian Pirate.  You can't see
anything at night.  You are armed with a dull dagger.  Your only chance is
to find weapons left lying around by the networks (to make the fight more
interesting for the viewers at home).  If you, by some ACCIDENT, manage to
survive this massacre, you can go free!  (VERY few prisoners have left the
arena alive and there are NO repeat offenders on Dagania)



   - The Game -


   Welcome to The Gladiators of Dagania, a 3D multiplayer (soon!) combat
game written entirely in AMOS Professional 2.0.  A level editor is included,
so you can make your own mazes.  Now you know where I've been since Dillo!

   As Captain Darlatu "Psycho" Williams, you start off right after you are
teleported down into the Arena of Doom.  You must move fast - there are
enemies all around!



 - To Run Gladiators -


   Double click on the game icon.  Did you just buy an Amiga?  Do you need
to hear this?

   You do need lots of RAM (1 Meg chip, some fast) and a hard drive to run
this.  It's just too big to fit on a single floppy, and the data file can't be
on a different disk.  Sorry, floppy people!  (It should be OK on a High -
Density Floppy, tho)

   You must boot in NTSC.  If you have a PAL Amiga, a program like DEGRADER
or, if you have AGA, using the boot screen to boot in NTSC should do the
trick nicely.

   You should have Workbench loaded.  I think the game needs some libraries
or something.


 - The Menu -


   Once the game's up, you will see a title screen with six buttons carved
in.  On the left, from top to bottom, they are:

   1 Player start against computer opponents only
 
   2 Player start using a Null Modem Cable
     (This feature is disabled in this version)

   2 Player start using a Modem
     (This feature is also disabled in this version)


On the right, from top to bottom:

   Info screen  : Read me rambling for about an hour
   Level Editor : Make/Load a maze
   Quit         : To the Workbench with ye



 - Making a Maze -


   Before you can start a 1 player game, you must create or load a maze.
The editor is pretty self explanitory, you can wander around in the maze
with the QWE,ASD keys and use the mouse to draw walls, objects, and
opponents.  Use the second mouse button to erase a square.  With the
sun/moon icons at the right you can select which Daganian moon you want
to start on - It can be either always light, always dark, or alternate every
few minutes.  (You should probably leave it on DAY while you're editing
and switch it before you save)

   Your character's position will be saved along with the game, but you
shouldn't leave the editor without saving the maze first or his position
will be reset to where it was last saved.

   You must put down at least one Skullbot to exit the editor, and a maximum
of ten Skullbots can be in a maze.

   For your convenience, I included a maze called "SOLID" that's mostly
filled with walls so you can carve "tunnels" out of it.

   The Blue wall with an "I" on it is an intangible wall- you can shoot
through it and move through it but you can't SEE through it!

   The P1 and P2 buttons don't do anything at the moment...

   You can put down as many objects as you like; they don't affect the speed
of the game.


Hints for successful Maze Making:

   The maze CAN be 32*32 blocks large, which is far bigger than it needs to
be.  Make small, simple mazes or you will get lost.

   Don't create any "closed off" areas- there's a way to do limited
teleporting using one of the objects, and if you teleport IN to such an area
and then run out of power, you can't get OUT!  If you were seperated from
the opponents, you would then have to surrender or wander for eternity...

   Think "Rogue" style mazes.  They're cool.


 - Starting a 1 Player Game -


   After you have loaded or created a maze, make sure it's saved and exit
back to the menu screen.  Then press the "Start 1 Player" button (Top Left)
to enter the Arena!

(extra mazes are included in this version, made by me, Rick Felice.  I
never get credit for anything!!! :~( YOUR WELCOME!!!)

Controls:


Gladiators uses the mouse and keyboard for controls.

   Use the keys "W" and "S" to run forward or backwards, "A" and "D"
to dodge sideways, and "Q" and "E" will rotate 90 degrees.  (I use these
keys because with the mouse in the right hand it's hard to reach those arrow
keys!)

   You can press the Pause button or Quit the game with the buttons at the
bottom of the screen.  A compass in the lower left shows where you're
facing.


Your Health:

   Your health is indicated as a shattered-mirror shaped rainbow colored
meter.  As you are injured, the bar will drop.  When it hits bottom, so do
you!  There may be medical supplies to be found, however...


Using Objects:

   The Arena of Doom is littered with helpful little gizmos that can keep
you alive, kill your enemies, and allow you to do generally cool things.

   Notice the six small storage boxes. The two on the far left are your
your pockets.  You can store any object you find in either or both of them.
Objects in your pockets are completely inactive; they will not affect you
in any way.

   To pick up an object, stand RIGHT IN FRONT OF THE OBJECT and use the
hand shaped mouse pointer to pick the object up.  The pointer will change
into a miniature of the object.  You may then drop the object, provided the
square in front of you is empty, or "swap" the object with another one on
the ground.  Notice only one object can occupy any square.

   The two small far right boxes are your hands.  By putting an object
in one of these, you can use the objects by means of the two large "close
up" windows at the top left.  Here, any details on an object you are
holding are clearly visible, and if there are any actions that can be
perfomed with an object, you can push the buttons in these "close up"
windows.  For instance, to stab with your knife, press the "Stab" button
in the window.  To fire a gun, press the "Fire" button, and so on.  Some
items' buttons are not so clearly labeled, however...

   Some objects will react with other objects.  For example, you can load a
gun by placing the ammo in one hand and the gun in the other (IF the gun can
hold any more ammo, that is)

   There is also an "eyes" box and a "shirt" box.  You can put only special
items in these two boxes.

   As with objects on the ground, you can "swap" an object you are holding
in the mouse pointer with another object in a pocket or hand.


   If you can kill every Skullbot in a maze, you win!  If they get you, you
lose.  Simple enough...


 - Future Versions -


   I have been hacking around with this game for well over a year now, and
I'm really sick of even thinking about it!  But if I get lots of morale
$upport knowwhatimean I will really try to complete the multiplayer version!
I have all the graphics for that version done, I have a null modem cable, I
have 2 Amigas, 2 phone lines, AND 2 modems... All I need is a little
motivation to code the damn thing!
   If you register, and IF I ever finish the 2 player game, you will be
remembered!  So be sure to include your address!  Anyway, I think even
the 1 player game's cool enough for 5 measley bucks, eh? ;)  And send
suggestions!  I'd love to hear some good ideas!  Narf!  I'm leaving now!
BYE!


 - Kit Felice

felicec@cwu.edu
(until summer anyway ;) -rick)




