
        Before attempting to go into the ants' nest, you should first save
        elmer to get more flamethrower fuel.  Some time between the 8th and
        10th (i don't remember the exact day), he will leave a note in his
        station saying that he is going hiking in the sw volcanic cone.  Go
        to the volcano, fight the ants, and next day, visit elmer's station.
        He'll thank you for saving his life and give you more flamethrower
        fuel.  The entrance to the ants' nest will never appear on the main
        map, but there are several other ways to get there:

            - By taking a flight from Hilber's field.
            - By driving a tank from a battle going on at a nearby location.
            - By going south when you are in a battle at the M1 mine.

        The entrance to the nest doesn't stay open long enough for you to
        get in before the ants start invading the various locations in the
        town, so you'll have to wait until they do.  The 11th is the best
        day to enter the hole since it is very hot and there are few ants
        around.  If you try cooler days, there will probably be too many of
        them around for you to handle.  Also, if you decide to get to the
        hole by plane, you can land safely on the dirt road parallel to the
        tracks leading to the m1 mine.

        For those who are having trouble getting to the ants hideout, it is
        located about one screen due south of mine one.  The best way to
        gain access to the tunnel is on the morning of day 11.  Go to the
        airport and get the plane.  Fly to mine one (southeast from the
        airport) and land on the road in front of mine one.  Get out of
        your plane and walk to the center of the main building of mine one.
        Walk south about one and a half screens and the hole should open
        and a ant will crawl out.  You must kill the ant and run to the
        hole before it closes.  You will get about 4 or 5 chances to get
        in.  Once you are in the hole you will automatically have the flame
        thrower and the timed dynamite charges.  There are two levels of
        the ants chambers, a top level and a bottom level.  You must make a
        map as to where you have checked.  YOu can do this by putting the
        game on pause with the left mouse button.  This will keep the ants
        off you while you draw maps.  Once you have made it to the bottom
        chamber repeat the map drawing till you find the queen ants
        chamber.  You will need it to get out after you plant the charges.
        To plant the charges once in the queens chambers move close to the
        queens left side of her body.  Once you walk around her left side
        the music will stop and a slow ticking will start.  You will have
        to get back to the place you entered on the second level. If you
        get back before the bomb goes off you will win the game.

        NOTE:

            It means nothing to gather information about the ants through
            out the game.  The mayor will not listen to anything you
            present in evidence. He will call an alert only after his car
            gets eaten on the afternoon of June 11.

            It will do no good to escape the hospital as you have to sleep
            anyway.  Even thou it will do no good to escape from the
            hospital it's a fun arcade sequence to play.

            Even with the solves given above you still must learn how to
            fly the airplane.  To get the right altitude to save fuel,
            after you take off fly east or west.  Back off the throttle
            till the shadow on the ground comes up and just touches the
            wing of the plane.  You will then have the right speed and
            altitude.  The faster you fly and the higher you go the more
            fuel you will use.  These settings will conserve enough fuel
            to let you fly and not run out of gas and return to the
            airfield and land if you blow it getting into the ant hole.

