VIRTUALGP FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (PART I)


1)	START-UP PROBLEMS

Q:	I've downloaded the demo from Aminet, but I'm not able to unpack the archive 
or, anyway, when unpacked the game doesn't work
A:	Download it from the German site of Epic, www.epic-marketing.de; the demo 
on Aminet was packed with an old version of LHA, maybe this is the cause.

Q:	I've bought the final version of the game, but when I start it the game hangs at 
the "loading..." screen
A:	There are many possibilities:
	a)	you're low on chip mem. VGP needs at least 1.4Mbytes of free chip 
mem, try to free up some resources before loading VGP again (to be sure of this, 
start VGP from the shell, simply "cd"-ing to the root of the game CD and then 
"execute"-ing the VirtualGP script - if the game hangs, return to the WB and read the 
error message printed on the shell; if you read the italian words "Niente Audio", 
you're low on chip mem)
	b)	if the problem arises when starting the game from the HD, probably 
you did something wrong. Maybe you have edited the config files and made some 
mistakes or so. That's the case if everything works ok when you run the game from 
the CD
	c)	your cd file system is too old, is misconfigured or so. As an example, 
many Squirrel SCSI owners use the old cdfilesystem from Commodore; this file 
system is really crap and doesn't work with VGP. You must upgrade to a 
better/newer file system (by the way, other applications and the general throughput 
of your system will benefit from it too)

Q:	The game works, but I'm not able to see the intro animation
A:	There are many possibilities:
	a)	your Amiga setup isn't able to display HAM8 screens. The VGP intro is 
stored in HAM8 format, if you (as an example) own a gfx-board equipped A3000 you 
can play the game but, unfortunately, you cannot see the animations
	b)	your CD drive is too slow. 2x/4x/6x CD drives are too slow, they don't 
offer enough bandwidth to play the animations. You can solve this problem by simply 
copying the whole game onto your HD
	c)	you are low on chip mem. The game has detected enough chip mem to 
start up, but it needs some more for animations/speech. If that's the case, you 
shouldn't be able to hear any speech from the game too


2)	INPUT DEVICES PROBLEMS

Q:	What do the sensitivity settings do
A:	They control the mouse/analogue response. The more you increase them, the 
more the car steers when you move the mouse/analogue (they have no effect if you 
play VGP with a digital joystick). The linear setting increases the sensitivity linearly: if 
you, say, double it, the steering angle doubles, mouse/analogue movement being 
the same. The quadratic setting gives a "parabolic" increase: it has quite no effect in 
the central positions, but it adds up an additional amount when you steer a lot (in 
chicanes or hairpins); it's useful if you want to keep the linear setting low (to have 
better precision in fast turns/straight) but you still want to be able to make slow turns 
(chicanes/hairpins).

Q:	I'm not able to play with an analogue device. After calibrating it, when I go to 
the track the game hangs and/or behaves in strange ways
A:	Some analogue/adaptors switch the X and Y input lines in the plug. Reboot 
your Amiga, run VGP and, BEFORE everything else, turn on the "Switch X/Y 
readings" option in the game options. Then, calibrate the analogue. If now everything 
works, your equipment switches the two lines (save the game options settings, so 
that the "switch" option will be on every time you play VGP again)

Q:	When I play VGP with an analogue, I'm not able to steer very much. Moving 
the input device left or right gives a very little steering
A:	Increase the "steering sensitivity" settings. To know the value you need to get 
the full steering angle, do the following: select mouse as the input device, return to 
the car and turn on the VirtualCockpit feature (press F1); steer left or right to the 
maximum, and take notice of how much "tyre" do you see; then, select again the 
analogue, return to the car, steer left or right and see whether you can see quite the 
same "amount of tyre"; if it's not the case, increase the sensitivity settings. Increase 
the linear setting at first, and the quadratic only if the linear isn't enough; when you're 
done, you can try to decrease the linear setting a bit while increasing the quadratic 
one, if you need a better precision in the central positions

Q:	I've increased both the linear and quadratic settings to their maximum, but still 
I cannot reach the full steering angle
A:	You're probably using a PC analogue device; unfortunately some of these 
devices use too little potentiometers to be usable on the Amiga.
The Amiga reads the pots input in 8-bit registers, thus an Amiga device (which uses 
500kOhm pots) gives a reading of about -128/+127, depending on its current 
position. Some PC analogues use far lower pots, maybe giving readings of only 
-16/+16; these values are too low for a continuous and smooth "steering" angle, so 
VGP limits the multiplier factor to a maximum so that the steering angle continues to 
be "smooth", but of course the maximum steering angle decreases. Otherwise, the 
car will become too "jumpy" and it won't be possible to do turns because of the 
impossibility to rightly follow the line.
Unfortunately, this means that you aren't able any more to go around slow corners, 
chicanes, hairpins. There are only two solutions to this problem:
	a)	replace the potentiometers of your analogue device. Sometime this is 
very easy, especially with steering wheels (you need only to replace them with a 
standard 500kOhm one)
	b)	put a couple of capacitors on your analogue plug. These capacitors 
must be placed in parallel between the Amiga pot input lines and the ground. On 
Aminet there is an archive, "anacal.lha", which explains well how to do the magic 
and which pins must be affected. The archive contains a good analogue test 
program that let you discover whether your analogue uses too low pots or not. You'll 
need to play around a bit with the capacitor values, because you need to discover 
them yourself (they depend on the pot values of your analogue). The archive 
contains some reference values, but maybe your equipment will require different 
ones (it has been reported that 0.15 microfarad capacitors are enough for the 
"Thrustmaster Formula Sprint" steering wheel, as an example)


3)	MISC

Q:	Where can I find additional info on VGP
A:	There isn't an "official" VGP www site, at the moment, so upgrades/patches 
etc. will be available on Aminet. There is anyway a VGP mailing list, there are 
already many users there, willing to share ideas / setups / hints etc. You can post 
your questions there too. To join it, simply send a blank mail to:

	virtualgp-subscribe@egroups.com

Remember, however, that it's a "user mailing list", so for any questions about 
availability of the game, purchase orders, replacing / refunding, etc. you should 
contact Epic Marketing

Q:      Can I play VGP under UAE
A:      Yes; the demo needs at least the 3.0 roms but doesn't require the WorkBench;
all you need is to "SetPatch", put the stack to 20000, make the required assign and
have a copy of diskfont.library available on the boot disk. The final version of the
game needs a properly installed CD-ROM driver/filesystem


Enjoy VGP!
