Battlefield format
------------------
Each field consists of three files:
- <name>.fld
- <name>-map.iff
- <name>-col.iff

The directory is scanned for "fld"-files and based on these the
other files are searched, therefore the naming scheme should be followed.


<name>.fld
----------
A text file with the following parameters, case sensitive. 
The "sco" entry is mandatory, others optional.

sco=116,249
fla=0
pri=0

"sco" sets the scoreboard coordinate. Each number must consist of three
digits. The coordinate 0,0 is then expressed as 000,000.
The scoreboard dimensions are 112x7 pixels.

"fla" defines which of the palette indexes is flashed. Range 0..7.
Set to 0 to not flash anything. You can specify up to four indexes
separated by commas: fla=1,2,3,4

"pri" defines the tank playfield priority. 0 makes the tanks and bullets
appear under the field graphics, 1 on top of the field graphics.

"dsr" changes how the collision map index 3 color works. Default value 0
means it's a kill wall which destroys tanks on impact. Value 1 means
a bullet hit will destroy the wall where the bullet hit.

"dsc" is the color to be used for the destroyed parts of the wall. Value
0 is used by default.

"nrn" excludes the field from the random selection shuffle if set to 1.

The following parameters can be used to override tank properties
set in the ui. These can either define a specific value or an acceptable 
range used for clamping.

Value override:

siz=15
spd=09
trn=26
bsp=15

Set an acceptable range:

siz=03,08
spd=09,15
trn=26,30
bsp=14,18

"siz" overrides the tank size setting. Range 01..20.
"spd" overrides the tank speed setting. Range 03..20.
"trn" overrides the tank turn speed setting. Range 10..48.
"bsp" overrides the tank bullet speed setting. Range 09..25.

The visible name is the fld-filename without the extension.


<name>-map.iff
--------------
This is the main graphic for the battlefield display.
Format: Amiga ILBM
Resolution: 320x256
Depth: 8 colors (3 bitplanes)

Use the color index 0 for background.


<name>-col.iff
--------------
This is the collision map for the battlefield. 
Format: Amiga ILBM
Resolution: 320x256
Depth: 4 colors (2 bitplanes)

Here each color index has a special meaning:
- index 0: background, tanks and bullets pass through
- index 1: wall, tanks stop and bullets bounce
- index 2: chasm, tanks stop, bullets pass through
- index 3: kill wall, tanks get destroyed on impact and bullets bounce,
           or a wall that can be destroyed by bullets.

The actual color values are not used.

Use thick walls or chasms. Bullets may tunnel through narrow walls
especially if they're fast. Tanks may hit behind narrow walls on collision,
leading to an instant death effect. Both of these are side effects
of the collision detection mechanism.

Each collision map should have a border to stop the tanks. Otherwise they
may appear partly on the other side of the screen.

The scoreboard should be protected from bullet hits, as hitting
the scoreboard will damage the tanks of the corresponding color.

Bullets will expire when they reach the collision map border if there
are no bouncy walls placed there.


Other notes
-----------
The game will load the fields first, then music. It will load as much as the memory
allows. The IFF files can be compressed with the "fimp" tool to save space and lower
the memory usage. They are small so there's no noticeable decompression delay.

