          Critical Hit 

for Amigas with at least 1 MB RAM 

 
   Tabletop Fantasy War Gaming 
     from Psychic Software. 

 
       ShareWare v. 1.0 
    (C) Sam Redfern, 1995. 

 
--------------------------------
Section 1: Basics. 
--------------------------------
 
Introduction 
------------

Critical Hit is a highly detailed fantasy combat game, which 
re-creates tabletop war gaming on the Amiga. It features a 
complex and accurate combat system, in which the skills, 
equipment, health and injuries of individual soldiers are 
traced. Many real and fantastic creatures are included, each 
with their own skills, psychology profiles and leadership 
characteristics. 

Complete campaigns may be waged, which consist of series of 
individual battles. The result of the battles determines the 
flow of the campaign. Battles are depicted on stunning three 
dimensional landscapes, and a wide variety of fantasy combat 
"figures" and scenery is utilised. 

The Unregistered Shareware version runs on 1MB machines, and 
includes a single campaign, "Goblin." This version does not 
include any music, and uses only some of the available features 
of Critical Hit. 


Installing the Game 
-------------------

Installing Critical Hit on a Floppy Disk

You will need a completely empty, formatted disk. Carry out the
following steps:
(1) Re-name the disk "CriticalHit_Disk1"
(2) Un-archive CriticalHit.lha onto this floppy
(3) Locate the FONTS directory on your Workbench disk. Copy the
'helvetica.font' file from the fonts directory on the newly
copied disk into the fonts directory on workbench. Also copy
the 'helvetica' sub-directory from the new disk into the fonts
directory in workbench.
You will be able to run the game from workbench.

Installing Critical Hit on a Hard Disk 

To install Critical Hit on your hard disk, follow these steps: 
(1) Create a directory for the game, e.g. 'CriticalHit' 
(2) Within this directory, create the following sub-directories: 
     IFF 
     SPRITES 
(3) Copy all of the files from your floppy disk(s) into the main 
directory. All files from inside the IFF directories on the 
floppy(s) must go into the IFF sub-directory, and likewise for the 
files in the SPRITES directory. 
(4) Locate the FONTS directory on your hard disk. Copy the 
'helvetica.font' file from the floppy's fonts directory into this
directory. Also copy the 'helvetica' sub-directory from the floppy
into the FONTS directory on the hard disk.  
(5) Finally, you must create two assigns in the 'startup-sequence'
file, which is located in the 'S' directory on your hard disk. For
example, if you are installing the game into a directory called 
'CriticalHit', inside 'dh0:', use the following two lines in
startup-sequence: 
      assign  CriticalHit_Disk1:  dh0:/CriticalHit 
      assign  CriticalHit_Disk2:  dh0:/CriticalHit 

Troubleshooting

If Critical Hit won't run, make sure your boot disk (i.e. workbench
or your hard disk) has the following files:
In the 'C' directory: Assign and BindDrivers
In the 'L' directory: Disk-Validator
In the 'libs' directory: distfont.library and mathtrans.library

If you only have 1MB of memory and the game crashes, you must 
make the CriticalHit_Disk1 floppy into a bootable disk, so that you
don't have to use workbench to run the game. Do the following:
(1) Issue a "install df0:" command from Shell
(2) Create the following directories on the floppy:
      C
      env
      l
      libs
      system
      t
(3) Copy the following 2 files from your workbench disk
into the C directory: Assign and BindDrivers
(4) Copy the following file into the l directory:
Disk-Validator
(5) Copy the following 2 files into the Libs directory:
diskfont.library and mathtrans.library

Playing the Game 
----------------

When the game is loaded, you will see the main title screen. 
From here you can begin playing a new campaign ('NEW'), load a 
previously saved game ('LOAD') , or quit ('QUIT'). On the 
shareware version, you cannot load or save games, and you can 
only play the campaign called 'Goblin'.

Firstly you will be presented will some information about the 
campaign you are about to play. When you click on OK, the armies for
the first battle will be created. Then you will see an overhead view
of the battle area. There will be a number of flags on the map - 
some red (the first army), and some blue (the second army).  Each
flag represents a UNIT of up to 50 soldiers. Each unit will be of 
one particular type - goblin infantry, human cavalry, elf archers,
and so on. Click on a unit to select it. You can also select the 
flashing unit by pressing RETURN. 

When you select a unit, you are presented with information on the
unit and on each of the soldiers in it. To the left you see unit
information - morale, status, psychology, number of turns needed 
to reload, etc. Also here is a RANK WIDTH button. Use this to
change the number of soldiers in each rank of the unit (a wider
formation means that more soldiers can fight at once, but is easier
to break up and attack). The SEE button allows you to get a close-up
view of the battle field close to the unit. The ACTIVITY button
brings up the activity command-bar (see below). The OK button returns
you to the map screen. To the right of the unit information screen is
information on an individual soldier. Use the small up and down arrow
buttons to see the different soldiers in the unit. As you will see,
each soldier has an individual name, skills, injuries, weapons and
armour. Some may even have magical skills. 

The Status Bar to the right of the screen tells you the army that is
currently playing. The ">>" and "<<" buttons on this bar are used to
change the unit that is flashing. (The arrow keys also do this). The 
magnifying glass button is used to view a close-up area anywhere on
the battlefield.   

The normal Command Bar at the top of the screen is used to: 
END MOVE. Your army will carry out any orders, and battles will be
fought between close units. The opposing army can then move. 
SURRENDER. You will then lose the current battle without any further
injury. You will hope to win the next battle in the campaign! 
SAVE GAME. You can save a game at any stage, for re-loading later
(registered version only). 
QUIT. To leave Critical Hit. You will be asked to save your game first. 

The activity Command Bar, which appears when the ACTIVITY button is
clicked while a unit is selected, is used to order a unit to carry out
actions. 
MOVE. A dotted line will be drawn around the unit. This shows how far
the unit will get in one turn. You can then select anywhere on the map
to move towards (it may take several turns to get there). 
CHARGE. This orders the unit to move towards an enemy unit, even if
that unit itself moves. 
SHOOT. You can fire missile weapons (bows, slings, daggers, spears),
magical attack spells, and war-engines (cannons, stone-throwers, etc.)
at enemy units. You will only hurt them if you are close enough and
they are not behind too much cover. 
FIRST AID. A unit that is not in combat may attempt first aid. This may
stop minor wounds from bleeding. Magical healing may stop major
bleeding or even repair critical hits (broken bones, etc.) 
RALLY. If your unit leader has lost control of the unit, they will run
towards the edge of the map, in order to leave the battle. Until the
unit has been successfully rallied, they will not do anything else. 
FORMATION. You can change the position of individual soldiers in the
unit. Each rank of soldiers is displayed with a different colour - the
first coloured soldiers are in the front rank, and so on. Note that 
soldiers to the very left and right of an internal rank are really at
the edge of a unit, and so they can get shot at or attacked. Other
soldiers in the internal ranks (i.e. not the front or back rank) are 
relatively safe. To swap the position of two soldiers, select one and
then the other. You may DROP a soldier who is slowing down your unit
due to injuries. This soldier will be back in the unit for the next 
battle, if he or she survives the injuries. 

Basic Tactics 
-------------

1. Keep your units behind cover as much as possible. Hills, trees, and
defensive walls are particularly useful. 
2. Try to avoid being attacked from higher ground. 
3. Try to avoid getting a unit attacked by two or more enemy units, as
it will panic. 
4. Make strategic use of your missile capabilities - draw the enemy
towards your regular units and ambush them with missile fire. 
5. The war engines are particularly strategic weapons, since they are
slow to move but powerful. Stone throwers can be used to fire over
hills and other cover. 
6. Cavalry units are very mobile, and are therefore useful for harrying
enemy units and then retreating. They are normally numerically small
units, and so should not be allowed to get caught up in extended 
battles. 
7. As soldiers in your front ranks become tired and injured, swap them
for fresh soldiers from the internal ranks. This should minimise
serious injuries and deaths. 
8. Make sure you know who your magicians are from the start. 

Ordering Critical Hit 
---------------------

The Registered version of Critical Hit includes facilities for 2 player
games, custom-built campaigns and maps (so that you can make your own
games), and unit leader name customisation. Also included is a large
amount of new creatures, weapons,  scenery, game system features, and several full campaigns exclusively designed by Psychic Software. If you
have more than 1MB of memory, Critical Hit will also run faster, and
you will hear a full musical score. Registered users of Critical Hit
will automatically receive future copies of major updates to the game.

To order Critical Hit, send a cheque, money order, or cash, for £15 Stg.
or U.S.$ 30 to:  

Sam Redfern, 
15 HyBrasail Court, 
Circular Road, 
Galway, 
Irish Republic. 

You can also contact me via e-mail: 
sam.redfern@ucg.ie 

I would like to hear any suggestions or comments that you may have.
Even if you're only using the unregistered version, feel free to give
me a call... 

********************************************************************
If any ShareWare or commercial software distributer is interested in
marketing Critical Hit, they can contact me at the above addresses. 
********************************************************************


--------------------------------------
Section 2: Game Mechanics. 
--------------------------------------
 

Movement - Foot and Mounted Units 
---------------------------------

Each race has a standard movement allowance - for humans it is 15
units per turn. This movement allowance is affected by armour,
injuries, and the terrain that is being covered. Armour, injuries
and terrain may affect different units differently - for example,
mounted (cavalry) units are very fast in open terrain but are heavily
affected by hills, trees and other cover. Roads increase movement
ratings, but tend to be dangerously open. 

The information screen for a unit gives the unit's overall movement
speed, and also the move for each individual soldier. A unit can only
move as fast as its slowest member - stunned, bleeding and critically
injured soldiers will certainly slow down a unit. Leg injuries in
particular slow down a soldier significantly.    

Armour 
------

Several different forms of body armour are included in Critical Hit.
In general, armour slows down its wearer but lessens the chance of him
being badly injured. The chance of being struck in combat is not 
lessened by armour - in fact with heavy armour a soldier is slightly
more likely to be hit - however armour makes the chance of superficial
"concussion" hits more likely and the chance of critical hits less 
likely.  

Some types of armour are more effective against certain weapons than
others. Metal armour such as platemail and chainmail perform better
against edged weapons such as swords, and not as well against blunt
weapons such as clubs. The main categories of armour are summarised
below: 

                                            Protection versus:
Type       Description   Move penalty      Edged     Blunt     Pointed

Leather    Heavy leather      1         Very little  Little   Very little
Cuirboilli Reinforced leather 2           Little    Moderate    Little
Ringmail   Metal rings on leather 4        Good     Good       Moderate
Scalemail  Small plates on leather 4       Good     Good         Good
Chainmail  Tight metal mesh   4          Very good  Moderate  Very good 
Platemail  Solid metal plates 5          Excellent  Good       Excellent 

Some soldiers may also have shields. These generally increase the
effectiveness of their defences. 

Weapons
-------

The hand-to-hand weapons in Critical Hit are as follows:  

Weapon      Critical Type       Ease of Hit               Damage
 
Sword          Slash              Normal                  Normal
Axe            Slash               Good                   Normal
Pike        Slash + Crush         Normal                   Good
Broadsword     Slash              Normal                  Normal
Spear          Impale             Normal                  Normal
Mounted Lance Impale + Crush       Good                 Very good
Battleaxe   Slash + Crush         Normal                   Good
Scimitar       Slash              Normal                  Normal
Club           Crush               Good               Below average
Warhammer      Crush               Good                   Normal
Dagger         Impale              Bad                     Bad

Long weapons such as pikes and spears also afford some protection for
their users, since they can be used to hold opponents at a distance. 
Note that a lance can only be used by mounted units. Heavy weapons
such as pikes and battleaxes can only be used by stronger units such
as humans, orcs and dwarfs. 

Missile weapons are used from a distance, and can be extremely
effective if wisely deployed. The relative ranges, damage effectiveness
and reloading speeds of the missile weapons are outlined below: 

Name              Range            Damage             Reloading

Spear               5               Bad                 Fast
Sling              20               Bad                 Fast
Short Bow          45               OK                  Fast
Long Bow           70               Good                Fast
Composite Bow      60               Good                Fast 
Light Crossbow     50               Good                Slow
Heavy Crossbow     70             Very good           Very Slow

War Engines
-----------

War engines are large pieces of field weaponry, only one of which can
be used by any one unit. They are normally used by small, specialist
units. As they move very slowly, they are best deployed as tactical
weapons.
Bolt throwers are basically giant crossbows, and are the smallest war
engine.
Stone throwers, though relatively difficult to hit with, can hurl
stones over hills or other cover - they are the only weapon that can
do this. A single stone may strike several soldiers in the target unit. 
Cannons, like stone throwers, may injure several members of a unit at
once. Cannons are the most advanced war engine - however they sometimes
malfunction - they may even explode, killing their operators! 

Skills and Abilities 
--------------------

In Critical Hit, the skills and abilities of each individual soldier
are modelled. These are summarised below:  

ATTACK - the individual's skill at attacking with hand to hand weapons.
This skill directly affects the number and severity of hits, including
critical hits, scored by the soldier in combat. This skill increases
with experience. 
SHOOTING - the skill at firing missile weapons. Also increases with
experience. 
DEFENCE - the ability to dodge an opponent's blows. Reduces the chance
of being hit in hand to hand combat. 
LEADERSHIP - the ability to motivate and organise a unit of soldiers.
A good leadership ability is needed to regain full control when a unit
is confused, panicked, fearful, terrified, or routing. 
POWER - The amount of spell points (if any) remaining to the soldier
in this battle. 
BLAST Spells - The skill (if any) at using offensive spells. 
HEALING Spells - The skill (if any) at using healing spells. 
MOVEMENT - the distance that can be covered in one turn. Armour and
critical injuries affect the movement rating. 
ACTIVITY - the level of physical activity that the soldier is operating
at. This is 100% if healthy, and less if stunned or critically injured.
If activity is less than 100%, then *all* physical actions will be 
carried out at a reduced level. 
HEALTH - concussion hits are 'energy' - when they reach zero, the 
soldier is knocked out and cannot continue in the current battle. 
Bleeding causes a continual loss of concussion hits. Critical hits are 
serious injuries of various sorts, that affect the soldier in various 
ways: they range from bruises (which reduce activity by a little) to
severed jugulars and destroyed brains (which kill almost
instantaneously).  

Races 
-----
 
The following races of creatures are included to date. Their typical 
range of skills and abilities are provided. 

Humans. The most widespread of the good races. Normally lawful. 
Average height 5'8". Good all-rounders in battle. 
Attack 26-80; Defence 3-30; Shoot 25-70; Concussion hits 16-70; 
Leadership 14-50; Move 15; Chance of magic 2.5%; Morale 75.   

Goblins. The most common evil race. Average height 4'10". Badly
disciplined. Few magicians. Normally lightly armed.  
Attack 24-60; Defence 8-35; Shoot 22-67; Concussion hits 12-48;
Leadership 5-32; Move 13; Chance of magic 0.5%; Morale 50. 

Dwarfs. The elder race from the mountains. Normally lawful. 
Average height 4'10". Accomplished and well disciplined fighters.
Few magicians.  
Attack 31-94; Defence 2-24; Shoot 14-59; Concussion hits 23-95;
Leadership 22-58; Move 13; Chance of magic 0.5%; Morale 85.  

Elves. The elder race from the forests. Normally lawful. Average 
height 6'0". Good all rounders. Especially good archers and 
magicians.   
Attack 26-80; Defence 13-40; Shoot 32-95; Concussion hits 15-60; 
Leadership 25-70; Move 16; Chance of magic 10%; Morale 75. 

The following races are currently in development: 

Ogres, Giants, Trolls, Skeletons, Zombies, Dragons, Giant Rats,
Orcs. 

 
The Combat System - Hand to Hand 
--------------------------------
 
When two opposing units are in battle, each individual that can
reach the opposing unit gets a chance to attack. Normally this
includes all the soldiers in the front rank of the units. If one
unit has more soldiers in the front rank than the other, only 3
more can fight than the smaller unit has in its front rank. If a
unit is attacked from the side or rear, it normally turns to face
its attacker. If it is already in combat or is routing, it cannot do
so, and will panic. A soldier who has already fought this turn will 
have at most 50% activity remaining for the turn, and so will perform
badly in a second combat. 

Each soldier that can fight attempts to hit an opposing soldier. The
chance of hitting and the severity of hits is a combination of many
factors. These factors are outlined below. 

Positive Modifiers: 
+Attack skill of attacker 
+15 if attacker is on higher ground 
+25 if defender is routing 
+5 if defender is panicking 
+30 if defender is terrified 
+10 if defender is fearful 
+15 if defender is confused 
+10 if defending unit's leader is not in front rank 
+(5*number of ranks in attacking unit) 

Negative Modifiers: 
-Defence skill of defender 
-15 if attacker is on lower ground 
-10 if attacking unit's leader is not in front rank 
-20 if attacker has less than 50% of concussion hits remaining 
-(5*number of ranks in defending unit) 

The total modifier is multiplied by the attacker's % activity
remaining this turn. If a hit is scored, the nature of the injury
depends on the attacker's weapon and the defender's armour, as well
as the accumulated combat modifier. 

The Combat System - Missiles 
----------------------------
 
Missile attacks are made from a distance. The defending unit does not
get a chance to fight back immediately (it may of course shoot back
on its turn). All members of a missile unit may fire, even those in
internal ranks. Firing uses up all activity for the turn. 

The modifiers to missile attacks are: 

Positive Modifiers: 
+Shoot skill of attacker 
+Bonus due to type of missile weapon 

Negative Modifiers: 
-Penalty due to type of missile weapon 
-Penalty due to distance from defender (affected by range rating
of weapon) 
-Penalty due to cover between the units (summarised below) 
-20 if attacker has less than 50% of concussion hits remaining 

The total modifier is multiplied by the attacker's % activity 
remaining this turn. If a hit is scored, the nature of the injury
depends on the attacker's weapon and the defender's armour, as well
as the accumulated combat modifier. 

Any cover that lies between the two units may affect the shooter. 
Cover that is more than 10 feet below both the attacker and the
defender will not affect the shot. Any land more than 10 feet higher 
than both attacker and defender will make the shot impossible (unless
a stone thrower is being used). Certain cover (such as castle walls)
will not affect the attacker if he is close to it - this type of cover
is good for missile users to hide behind and fire from. 

Summary of cover penalties: 
-1: Saplings and small bushes 
-2: Low walls and standing stones 
-3: Medium trees and bushes 
-10 or more: Defensive buildings, i.e. houses, towers, castle 
walls etc. (only affects the shot if this cover is not close to the
attacker). 

Critical Hits 
-------------
 
All hits that are scored will cause a loss of concussion hits (i.e.
energy). Well placed hits may cause critical hits in addition to
concussion hits. 65 different critical hits are modelled in the game. 
A summary of the types of criticals, in each of the three categories,
is provided below: 

Slash Criticals (from edged weapons): 
Minor: small wounds, causing minor bleeding. 
Medium: large wounds - serious bleeding, sometimes damaged muscles
and tendons. 
Major: very large wounds and severed extremities - very serious 
bleeding, usually causing death. 

Crush Criticals (from blunt weapons): 
Minor: bruising and small bone fractures, normally only affecting
activity. 
Medium: broken bones, large activity effect. 
Major: shattered bones, often causing internal injuries and death.  

Puncture Criticals (from pointed weapons): 
Minor: small wounds, causing minor bleeding. 
Medium: larger wounds, sometimes serious bleeding and broken bones. 
Major: punctured internal organs or other vital areas. 

Many of these criticals do not necessarily cause death. Some of them
may take several weeks to heal - in the following battle they will
become a lesser critical. Some non-fatal criticals, such as paralysis, 
may never heal.  

Psychology and Leadership 
-------------------------
 
The leadership ability of a unit's leader is very important to its
effectiveness. When the unit suffers damage is battle, its morale will
drop. The lower morale drops, the greater the chance of the leader 
losing control, and the soldiers routing. This means they will run for
their "home" edge of the map, to leave the battle. A routing unit
cannot do anything else until it is rallied by the leader. A routing
unit makes an extremely easy target for the enemy, and may also reduce
the morale of nearby friendly units. 

The leadership ability of the leader is also used to negate other
psychological effects - fear, terror, confusion and panic - all of
which affect the combat ability of the unit and make complex troop
manoeuvres difficult. 

Fear and terror are caused when certain types of enemy attack a unit.
Living units are afraid of skeletons, zombies, dragons, and so on. 
Orcs and goblins are afraid of elves. Most units are afraid of cannons
and major attack spells. 

Confusion is caused when the leader has regained partial control of his
routing unit, having successfully rallied it. Movement can now be
controlled by the leader, but combat is best avoided. Particularly
stupid creatures such as trolls may become confused at any time. 

Panic is caused when a unit is attacked by more than one enemy unit at
once. 

Magic and First Aid 
-------------------
 
A unit that is not in combat may carry out first aid on its wounded
members. This may stop some minor wounds from bleeding. Medium
bleeding can not be healed on the battlefield (except through 
magic), and major bleeding can not be stopped through any means. 

A character with a HEAL skill may perform magical healing. There are 6
levels of this skill. Performing each level of healing requires the use
of the corresponding number of magical POWER points. 

These 6 levels are summarised below: 

Level  Affects  Bleeding stopped  OR Concussion hits  OR Criticals
                                         healed            healed
 
1    1 soldier       Minor                 20           0% chance 
2    1 soldier      Medium                 40           0% 
3   Entire unit   Very minor               10           0% 
4   Entire unit      Minor                 20           0% 
5   Entire unit     Medium                 40           0% 
6   Entire unit      none                 none          35% chance

A character with a BLAST skill may use offensive spells. These are
treated like missile weapons, and are subject to negative modifiers
due to range and cover, etc. There are 6 levels of offensive spells; 
each level requires the use of the corresponding number of magical
POWER points. The offensive spells are summarised below: 

Level    Spell            Attack "Skill"               Affects 

1      Fire Bolt                60                    1 soldier 
2       Ice Bolt                85                    1 soldier 
3   Electrical Bolt            110                    1 soldier 
4      Fire Ball                60                several soldiers 
5       Ice Ball                85                several soldiers 
6   Electrical Ball            110                several soldiers 

 

------------------------------- 
Section 3: Campaigns. 
-------------------------------
 
Full instructions on designing campaigns are supplied with the
registered versions of Critical Hit. They are summarised below, just
to get you interested and make you buy the game... 

Names 
-----
 
The names of unit leaders and ordinary soldiers may be edited. You can
let your friends be the leaders of units (instead of my friends!), and
stop all the soldiers having Irish names. 

Elevation Maps 
--------------
 
Three-dimensional elevation models of landscapes can be easily created
- you just draw 5 or 6 levels of contours into an IFF picture. They
are automatically smoothed into 256 distinct height levels, and a 
rather pleasing surface-shaded picture is generated for use on the main
map screen of Critical Hit. These models are then used in your own
custom-built campaigns. 

Object Maps 
-----------
 
Battle maps in Critical Hit consist of height values and also objects
such as bushes, trees, lakes, rivers, walls, buildings, roads, etc. 
Object maps are created by drawing pixels into an IFF picture. These 
pictures are automatically encoded into Critical Hit object maps. 

Assembling a Campaign 
---------------------
 
To create a campaign, you must first make a number of elevation maps
and corresponding object maps. You then choose a starting battle map,
and decide the storyline, and whether you want either of the armies to
be computer-controlled. If the first army wins the first battle, the 
story will go one way. If the second army wins, it will go another,
and a different second battle will be fought. The number and types of
new units for each battle must also be decided.  

If you get bored of the small GOBLIN campaign, but want to keep
playing Critical Hit, and would like to see the many features not
accessible in GOBLIN, then you should buy a registered version. You 
will receive a full version of the game, along with the campaign
generation programs and several full campaigns exclusively designed by
Psychic Software. You will also receive future updates of the game.
See 'Ordering Critical Hit', in the first section of this manual.    
