AmigaMUD, Copyright 1997 by Chris Gray


			    The MUDCre Program

MUDCre is used to create an initial AmigaMUD database in the directory
from which it is run. If a database is present, then MUDCre will ask
if it is to delete it first. An initial database cannot be used for a
multiplayer MUD as it does not have any handlers for user input. Only
wizards can use the system until the appropriate handlers are setup.

The standard scenario is created by having SMUD read the various
source files of the scenario, which create and initialize the world
and the handlers for it. This is done via:

    MUDCre
    run MUDServ
    SMUD < AmigaMUD:Src/go

The 'AmigaMUD:Src/go' file logs in SysAdmin, creates the world, sets
up all the handlers, etc. It does this mostly by using the 'source'
wizard command to read in all of the standard scenario source files.
Only those wishing to create a scenario from scratch need be concerned
with using MUDCre. Most systems will use the standard scenario
database, perhaps with some modifications done online.

The following items exist in the initial database:

    p_pName - a string property used to hold the name of the
	character. Also used on machines.

    p_pIcon - an int list property used to hold a player's (or
	machine's) icon (16 pixel by 16 pixel image which shows up on
	other players' graphics windows).

    Characters - the table of character names. This table maps from
	character names to the character data structures. It initially
	contains only "SysAdmin".

    Builtin - the table of builtin functions. These are not actually
	stored in the database - they are a part of MUDServ itself.

    a character creation password of 'CreationPassword'

    no machines

    no new character action

    character SysAdmin, with password 'SysAdminPassword', and prompt
	'input>'. SysAdmin is always a wizard. The initial icon for
	SysAdmin looks a bit like a "Superman" crest. (CHANGE THIS
	PASSWORD BEFORE PUTTING YOUR MUD ON LINE!)

    flags indicating that machines are active and are to be started
	as needed

    execution timeout of 10 seconds
