TechnoVenture Re-Release Notes January 10, 2002:
Amiga TechnoVenture has been living on in Aminet without me for a number
of years now.  Thanks to a review by Joona I Palaste I was inspired to
re-release Amiga TechnoVenture completely free with all the editors and
source code included this time.  I no longer have an Amiga (I am typing this
inside an emulator) and am unable to support registrations if they were to
occur, so I provide this archive containing (hopefully) all the files related
to TechnoVenture.  Thanks to Joona for also helping me salvage the files
before they were lost to oblivion.  He was one of the few Amiga TechnoVenture
registrants and was able to send me the editors and source code which he
received as part of the registration.  See his homepage at
http://www.helsinki.fi/~palaste

A couple notes about the source code:
All source code is in AMOS format and can be viewed / edited in AMOS
Professional.
The Automatic Map editor apparently uses some extension (I don't remember
what) which is not part of the standard AMOS Pro distribution.  So I can't
help you if you want to run or compile that source code.  You can, however,
run the AutoEd executable.
If you are going to be running the TechnoVenture Map Editor source code
(TechnoEd.amos) I have noticed that you need to first set AMOS' text buffer
to about 160000 before doing so otherwise it gets corrupted.

Thanks to all who have taken an interest in TechnoVenture and I hope you
enjoy this free re-release.  My current email address (as of Jan. 10, 2001)
is BlueMonkMN@email.com.  See http://gamedev.sf.net/ for more about my
current project and myself.

The original TechnoVenture documentation below is out of date, but
maintained as is for posterity or whatever :)  ... just ignore the part
where I beg for your money :)  (and ignore all my addresses as they no
longer apply.)
 

TechnoVenture V1.25b  by Ben Marty Copyright ©1994  (Last update July 4, 1994)

   This program was written using AMOS Professional.  The compiled
program is freely distributable but the author retains all rights to the
program and profit distribution thereof- NOT to be sold for a profit (ie.
excluding the charge of a disk and copying - $2 or so).  For information
or registration (see below for list of benefits), I can be reached at:
1410 Post Ave.;  Holland, MI 49424;  U.S.A;  Phone: (616)-399-4934
Internet: marty@cs.hope.edu
   And here's where I beg for your registration.  PLEASE, if you enjoy
this game, be honest and send the $10 (U.S.) registration fee.  Hey, not
only are you doing what is required, but you GET something out of it too!
When you register you get the following:
Latest version of TechnoVenture (1.25b as of 7/4/94)
A very nice TechnoVenture map editor
An automatic TechnoVenture map generator
The AMOS Pro SOURCE CODE for BOTH the GAME AND BOTH EDITORS!
Another map or two to play with

All this just for paying for something you've already used!

Please consider the following:
How long is a movie?
How long will you or have you already played TechnoVenture?
How enjoyable is pizza?
How enjoyable is TechnoVenture?
How much does it cost to go to a movie?
How much does it cost to go out for pizza?
How much is the registration fee for TechnoVenture?
How much additional time of enjoyment will you get for registration?
How illegal is it to break federal copyright laws?
2 more:
How often do you pay to see a new movie movie or video?
How often to you get to play TechnoVenture? 
New maps do come out, probably free too!

In addition, you'll be showing a struggling college student what his 
work is worth and I thank you sincerely.
   To register this program, send $10 (US) to the above address
requesting the registration of TechnoVenture.  I will send the diskette 
(you don't have to) with everything mentioned above.

   The following files must be included when distributing this game:
TechnoVenture
Default.Map
TechnoInfo.txt
TechnoSprites.ABK
TechnoVenture.ABK
Music.ABK
TechnoFX.ABK
libs/AMOS.Library

Instructions:

Joy stick:
Up: Jump, Use jet pack  (jump jumps higher on up-arrow blocks)
Left: Run and aim left
Right: Run and aim right
Down: Enter door, Plant bomb if in conjunction with button
Button: Read message (usually marked by sign post),  Plant bombs if in
        conjuntion with Down, turn on/off Energy beams with wrenches,
        fire energy gun (if owned and energized) if in conjunction with left 
        or right.

Keyboard:

The four arrows between the numeric keypad and the main keypad correspond to
the four main joy stick directions (they can be used in conjunction with
each other).  The right ALT key is the equivalent of the fire key.
"L" will load a different map (a new game or a saved game).
"S" will save the game under a given name.
"K" will kill you and place you at the position where you entered the screen
"R" Rearranges the inventory.  The two possible states are 1) visible at the
    bottom of the screen and 2) invisible until requested by...
"V" displays the inventory if it is hidden.  It reamins visible only as long
    as you hold the "V" key down.
"Q" Quits the game immediately (if that doesn't work CTRL-C should).
"P" Pauses the game until a key is pressed.
"M" Toggle music off/on.
"F" Toggle sound effects off/on.
"T" Begin/end motion tracking.
"D" Begin/end motion replay.
"]" Increase speed (Default is 1 Wait, Max. is 0 and may be jerky)
"[" Decrease speed (Minimum is 5 Waits)

Inventory:

   Your inventory can contain the following:
Red Key cards to open red doors
Green key cards to open green doors
Blue key cards to open blue doors
Wrenches to turn energy beams on and off
Treasure with which you may pay for keys and wrenches that need to be payed
   for (indicated by an arrow pointing from treasure to the item within a
   small icon.)
The number of lives you have
Bombs (used to blow up barrels)
A jet pack followed by the amount of jet fuel
A pickaxe
An energy gun followed by the amount of energy
Shields (protect you from monsters for a short while)
Swords (kill monsters if you touch them)
Magnets (allow you to walk through arrows)

Moving objects:

Platform: Stand on this to travel wherever the platform goes.
Bubble: Moves in continuous pattern and kills you if you touch it
Water blob: Moves from one end of a platform to the other and back, deadly.
Arrow:  Shoots up to a limited range whenever you move above it. (not the
      green arrown in a block, but a different up arrow) Also deadly
Rolling droid: Rolls to the left and right and tries to stay directly
      above or below you.  Kills if you touch it.
Fire: Moves back and forth in a limited range and always tries to stay on
      the same vertical position of the screen as you and, of course, kills.


Objects on the screen:

   Every energy beam is powered by an orb on one or both ends.  Standing by
the orb and pushing the button turns it on or off.  Beams are not deadly
and you may walk on them, but you cannot go through one.
   Moveable steel blocks are recognizeable by the two small supports on the
bottom.  You may move them left by getting on the right side of them and
pushing left.  You can push them right similarily.  When pushing, you need
not be directly next to it, but may be one row above or below it.  After
pushing it, if there is nothing holding it up, it will fall down and kill
any monsters it falls on.  You may also stand on top of one if it is in the
middle of the air and ride it down slowly.
   Pole-raised platforms are usually red held up by a white pole which you
usually cannot go through.  Standing on the red platform will lower it as
you ride down.
   Arrows are usually green in a silver block and may point up, left, or
right.  They will cause you to move in the indicated direction.
   Barrels are recognizeable by the rings that stick out around them at
certain places.  Placing a bomb next to a barrel will blow up the barrel.
It will also blow up any monsters around, crumbling blocks, and YOU!
   Crumbling blocks are recognizeable by the cracks in them.  They crumble
in three visible stages (including the original state) and then disappear.
   Sectioned blocks come in four pieces and will automatically be destroyed
when you touch them if you have a pickaxe.
   Treasure comes in two forms.  The golden spheres lying around and the red
spheres growing in trees may be picked up and used to pay for items.
   Message posts usually indicate a message you can read be standing
directly in front of the sign and pushing the button.  The message will
appear scrolling at the bottom of the screen until you press the button or
until the message has finished scrolling.
   Doors may or may not be visible.  Some are automatic and some you must
press down to enter.  They may transport you to another section or another
place on the same screen.
   Jet fuel is recognizeable as a translucent orange orb.  To use the jet
pack, just press up and hold up as long as you want.  Every time you slow
down, the rockets will fire again and use another jet fuel.  But if you run
up against a ceiling, watch out because the jet feul starts going fast!
   Gun Energy appears as a blue orb surrounded by energy arcs.  Each orb is
worth one shot with the gun.
   A pickaxe, a jet pack, and an energy gun will likely appear only once in
the game since once you have it, you keep it.
   There are two types of deadly blocks.  Fire and Skull & crossbones will
kill you, no way out: shields don't help and guns or swords don't kill.
   Shields and swords are explained in the inventory section above.
   The number of magnets used to pass through a section of horizontally
directed arrows (they do not work against up arrows) can be determined by
adding up the number of columns which would have an effect on the player 
arrow-wise.  So if "<" represents a left arrow, "#" represents ground,
and "P" represents the player, it would take 13 mangets to get through the 
following scene:     
#####  << <  <<
P      << <  <
###<###<#########
  111 1111111111

Where each "1" represents a position of a loss of 1 magnet.  The final "1"
exists because the center of the player can stand in that column while the
arrow can still affect the left side of the player.
Note that when running at full speed in the direction of the arrows, you
will not lose any magnets, but when walking more slowly, even in the 
direction of the arrows, you will lose magnetism.

Secret Blocks:

   Any block you can see may be a secret block.  This is how secret passages
may exist.  For every solid block, there is an equivalent block wich can be
walked through.  There may also be solid blocks where you don't expect.

*** NEW *** Secret Blocks!
   As of version 1.25 there are a new version of secret blocks with a 
totally different function.  These also may appear in any form (that of any 
other available block), but when you hit one from underneath, it pops up 
something above it.  IT WILL ONLY APPEAR IF YOU ARE PRESSING UP AT THE TIME
YOU TOUCH IT.  Note that it APPEARS to be a certain block and is actually
a question block.  So if a certain block does not function the way you
expect it to, you can probably count on it being a new secret block.  It
may interest you to know that a blocks "true colors" can be revealed with
a bomb.  Every block in the radius of the explosion will be exposed for
what it really is.  A "New Secret Block" is always a question block.  After
the contents of the block are released, however, the block will permanently
become what it appeared to be.

Motion tracking:
	This feature is new as of version 1.25.  It allows you to begin
tracking motion AT A SPECIFIC PIXEL and then save the motions to a file when
you are done.  This motion file can be loaded in and re-played.  Although
you can begin the re-play from any point, there will probably be no point
in replaying from any pixel other than the one from which it was recorded.
This is a good way to distribute a solution with any map created with the
TechnoVenture map editor.
	Due to the precise nature required for motion tracking and replay,
sprite motions have been redone in version 1.25.  Now instead of a fixed
speed of sprite movement with periodic updates depending on how fast the
game is running, the sprites move AND update at the same speed as the
player's movement.  For this reason, when the player is performing complex
operations, the sprites may move slowly as well as the player, unlike in
previous versions where the sprites simply updated slowly causing a skipping
effect.  The only variation may be with the horizontal movement of the fire
and energy gun.  I have not fully tested the synchronization, but suspect
it may be possible that these movements could be slightly off as they are
controlled under a different movement system.

Hints about moving:  You will notice that you have inertia so although you
stop moving in a direction, the robot will continue for a short distance due
to it's inertia.  Also note that the height of the jump is constant and has
nothing to do with the length that you hold up (except of course in the case
of a jet pack!).  You may notice it's very hard to fall down some skinny
holes because you have to be at just the right pixel alignment.  Therefore
in making the map I try to remember to avoid these, but you should be aware
of the precision needed to get through skinny holes.  One way to align
yourself correctly in such a situation is to run into a wall aligned with
the edge of a hole.  Then you should be able to go through without a
problem.
