2 Bit Productions are a new game writing team, with interests in developing
strategy war games. Before we commit time and effort into producing new
games we would like to know if this is worth doing. If you would spend a
few minutes to complete this survey, we would appreciate it.

1) Do you play strategy games? Y/N
   if yes:
   1.1) Which genre of strategy games most hold your interest?

        a) Science Fiction
        b) Fantasy
        c) Present Day
        d) Other...(specify)

   1.2) Which aspect of strategy games most holds your interest?

        a) Combat
        b) Resource Management/Development
        c) Plot Development
        d) Other...(specify)

2 Bit Productions are interested in producing a net based Play-By-Mail
(PBM) strategy war game. In the PBM system, players participate in the game
by sending game orders to a moderator, who coordinates the players actions
and game plot development. The results of each turn are then sent to the
players who then act on this information to produce their next turn. We
would like to know if there is any interest in this project and what
features players would like to see.

2) Do you have your own internet account? Y/N

3) If not, do you plan to get your own account? Y/N

4) Have you ever played a PBM game? Y/N
   If yes:
   (if you have played more than one, answer the following questions with
    your most liked PBM game in mind)
    
   4.1) How often did the game turn around?
   
   4.2) How much did the game cost per turn?
   
   4.3) For how many turns did you play?
   
5) Are you interested in playing a net-based PBM game? Y/N
   if yes:
   5.1) How often would you like turns to be processed?
        a) 2 weeks
        b) 1 week
        c) 3 days
        d) Other...(specify)
        
   5.2) How long would you want a game to last?
        a) 100 turns
        b)  80 turns
        c)  60 turns
        d)  40 turns
        e)  Other...(specify)
        
Thank you for assisting us with our survey. The rest is optional, however 
we would like to know something about you as an individual.

6) Name:

7) Gender:

8) Occupation:

9) Age: a)  <15
        b)15-24
        c)25-34
        d)35+

10) Country/State:

11) Hobbies:

2 Bit Productions appreciate the time you have spent replying to this
questionnaire. Please send the completed survey to:

E-mail address follows

or

Snail mail address follows

If you have any other comments to make regarding what you would like to see
in a strategy game we would also like to hear them.
