
    This is an exact copy of a text in the Nort-American Amiga magazine
                    AMIGA WORLD. February 1995, page 5.

                              Written by MAXX
                      Original written by Denny Atkin

------------------------------TEXT START------------------------------------

 Hidden within each version of the Amiga's operating system is a bunch of
secret messages left there by the Amiga development team. Some are simple
credits, some are in-jokes, and a few are editorial comments about
Commodore's marketing. Methods of finding and viewing these messages vary
with the version of the operating system you're running.

WORKBNCH 1.2 AND 1.3

 The AmigaDOS 1.x secret messages give thanks to the original Amiga
development team. It really takes two people (or a three-handed extra-
terrestrial) to see these.
 Reboot your computer and make sure that the Workbench screen is active.
Have one person hold down both sets of Shift and Alt keys on the keyboard.
Then press and hold each of the function keys in turn. A different message
will appear for each key.
 You might also try popping a disk in and out of DF0: while holding down
the above key sequence. Early versions of amigaDOS 1.2 (the enhancer kit
shipped for the A1000) contained a rather vicious dig at Commodore from the
original Amiga programmers that would appear when you ejected the disk.
Later 1.2 releases with the A500 and A2000 were toned down to compliments.

WORKBENCH 2

 Soon after upgrading to Workbench 2, I received a cryptic e-mail message
from an anonymous source at Commodore's old VAX minicomputer. It said
"Control the alternate menus to shift into an enlightened state." Now, at
this point, you can put the magazine aside and try to figure out the method
for yourselves, as I did. But if you want the scoop, just keep reading.
 As with the Workbench 1.x secret messages, you'll need three hands to see
these. First, click on the Workbench window with the left mouse button to
activate it. Now, press and hold down the Ctrl key, both Alt keys, and both
Shift keys. Use the mouse to select any of the Workbench menu items. Then
release the keys and choose Last message from the Workbench menu. You'll see
a secret message. Repeat this for every Workbench menu item - each has its
own message.

WORKBENCH 3: THE PUZZLE

 Of course, no new release of Workbench arrives without a hidden secret or
two. The Easter eggs in AmigaDOS 3, though, where hidden just a bit to well.
Just as my book, Denny Atkin's Best Amiga Tips And Secrets, was about to go
to press last year, I received another mysterious note from Commodore's
minicomputer, this one giving clues on finding the secret messages in Work-
bench 3.0. I didn't have time to puzzle them out, so I just tossed them in
the book, trusting that enterprising readers would find out what I couldn't.
More than a year later, I was still getting pleas from readers to spill the
beans - it seems the clues were just a bit too obscure for us.
 The following two clues are the ones I received. Give yourself a huge pat
on the back (you might use that third hand you used in the exercises above)
if you can access the secret messages using these clues - nobody I know was
able to do so.
 Clue #1: Control is given to those who are shifted four from the start and
do not give up on the alternate course.
 Clue #2: When it is about time to learn the secrets of the master, one must
also qualify for the enlightenment.

WORKBENCH 3: THE SOLUTION

 Couldn't find them? Don't feel badly; you're in good company. The hints
above were printed in my book, and I got dozens of e-mail letters from
people asking for the solution. The problem was, even I couldn't figure them
out. I finally tracked down Deep Byte, now late of Commodore, and he filled
me in on the exact procedure. It's a doozy, and I feel better about needing
help.
 First, the technical description: The messages show up when the About menu
item is selected while the Ctrl, Shift, and Alt keys are being held down and
the Workbench Open count turns 16 due to the requester appearing.
 Here's the procedure in plain english:
 1) Boot your Amiga. If you have many Workbench tools (such as AppIcons)
running, You may end up being past 16 already, so you may have to shut some
of the down.
 2) Press and hold down the right mouse button.
 3) Press and hold down the Ctrl, left-Shift, left-Alt, right-Shift, and
right-Alt keys.
 4) Select "About" from the Workbench menu.
 5) Move the About window aside (don't close it), click on the Workbench
window again, and repeat from step 2. Within 15 tries, a different About box
should open. If this does not happen, you may have the Workbench.library
open too many times. To make this work, reboot without runningthe startup 
sequence, start Workbench (using the LoadWB command), and try again.




Denny Atkin is author of the book:
"Denny Atkin's Best Amiga Tips And Secrets".

Send suggestion to him via e-mail at DennyAmiga@aol.com, or write to him
c/o AmigaWorld.
--------------------------------END OF TEXT--------------------------------
