

 CONTENTS

 This section will help you create and manipulate
 objects on a page. An object is an additional
 element, which is separate from the text that
 appears on the page. Examples of an object
 are - a line, a circle or a picture.

 Objects are created from the Drawing Tools
 palette ("Drawing Tools" command, View menu) or
 from the "Create Object" command (Object menu):

    CREATING A TABLE 
    CREATING A TEXT FRAME 
    DRAWING A LINE, OVAL, OR BOX 
    DRAWING A TEXTEFFECT 
    INSERTING OR CREATING AN OBJECT 
    PLACING A PICTURE 
    USING EPS SCALABLE PICTURES 


 Objects can be manipulated in many ways:

    ADD THEM TO ALL PAGES 
    ARRANGING THE DEPTH OF OBJECTS 
    DUPLICATING OBJECTS 
    GROUPING AND UNGROUPING OBJECTS 
    INFORMATION ABOUT OBJECTS 
    LOCKING AND UNLOCKING OBJECTS 
    MOVING AN OBJECT 
    SELECTING AND SIZING OBJECTS 



* USING OBJECTS
 Creating A Table

 A table is a grid comprising rows and
 columns of cells.

 Choose  CREATE OBJECT  (Object menu) and select
 Table from the list. Then drag an outline of
 the table frame on the page. When the Selection
 button is released, the table is created.

 Alternatively, show the drawing tools palette,
 and click the Tables icon ("Drawing Tools"
 command, View menu).

 The Ctrl key, when creating a Table, will
 constrain the box to a square.

 The Information command (Object menu) displays
 the following information:
   ° Frame position and size
   ° Fill colour
   ° Border colour and style
   ° Grid thickness and colour
   ° Text flow around the frame

 When you create a table, you view a selection
 of cells from a much larger area of cells.

 When a table is resized larger, more cells will come
 into view. If a table is shrunk, some of the cells
 will disappear.

 If cells move out of view, they are not deleted. This
 means that you can view them again by just enlarging
 the view of the table.

 Once a table has been created, you can:
    MOVE IT  around the document,
    SELECT IT ,
    RESIZE IT  to a new size,
    GROUP/UNGROUP  it with other objects,
    LOCK/UNLOCK  it to the page, or
    DUPLICATE IT  many times.



* USING OBJECTS
 Creating A Text Frame

 A text frame is a small independent,
 floating page, that contains text, which can
 be sized, altered and moved like any other
 object.

 Choose  CREATE OBJECT  (Object menu) and select
 "Text Frame" from the list. Then drag an outline
 of the text frame on the page. When the Selection
 button is released, the text frame is created.

 Alternatively, show the drawing tools palette,
 and click the Text Frame icon ("Drawing Tools"
 command, View menu).

 The Ctrl key, when creating a Text Frame, will
 constrain the box to a square.

 The Information command (Object menu) displays
 the following information:
   ° Frame position and size
   ° Margins inside the frame
   ° Fill colour
   ° Border colour and style
   ° Number of columns
   ° Text flow around the frame

 Once a text frame has been created, you can:
    MOVE IT  around the document,
    SELECT IT ,
    RESIZE IT  to a new size,
    GROUP/UNGROUP  it with other objects,
    LOCK/UNLOCK  it to the page, or
    DUPLICATE IT  many times.
    ADD IT TO ALL PAGES .



* USING OBJECTS
 Drawing A Line, Oval, or Box On The Page

 To draw one of these shapes, choose
  CREATE OBJECT  (Objects menu) and select one
 of the drawing tools from the list (Line, Box,
 Rounded Box, Circle or Oval)

 Alternatively, show the drawing tools palette,
 and click one of the shape object icons
 ("Drawing Tools" command, View menu).

 Drag the mouse pointer across the page and an
 outline of the object will appear. Releasing
 the Selection button will create the object on
 the page.

 The Ctrl key, when creating an object, will
 constrain its size as follows:
   Line ........... Constrains line to 90°
   Box ............ Constrains box to a square
   Oval ........... Constrains oval to a circle

 Once an object has been created, you can:
    MOVE IT  around the document,
    SELECT IT ,
    RESIZE IT  to a new size,
    GROUP/UNGROUP  it with other objects,
    LOCK/UNLOCK  it to the page, or
    DUPLICATE IT  many times.
    ADD IT TO ALL PAGES .



* USING OBJECTS
 Drawing A TextEffect

 To create a TextEffect, select the TextEffects
 object from the "Create Object" list and drag
 the mouse pointer across the page, then choose
  INFORMATION  command (Object menu) to see the
 TextEffects Information requester.

 The Ctrl key, when creating a TextEffects frame,
 will constrain the box to a square.

 The Preset gadget displays a list of preset
 effects that will be applied to the text you
 type into the Contents box.  Once a preset has
 been selected, you can change any of the
 parameters to create your own new style.


 Available Effects:
   ° Line       - Text along a line
   ° Circle     - The first and last letters of
                  the text will touch forming a
                  circle
   ° Spiral In  - Text is spiralled inwards to the
                  centre of a circle
   ° Spiral Out - Text is spiralled outwards from
                  the centre of a circle.

 NOTE: When using the spiral options, it is
 usually best to have a last character size of
 less than 50% for the best results.



* USING OBJECTS
 Inserting Or Creating An Object

 You can create various types of objects:
    Drawing Tools -  CIRCLES, OVALS, BOXES, LINES 
                    and  TEXTEFFECTS .
    Other         -  PICTURES ,  TEXT FRAMES 
                    and  TABLES .

 Choose the object from the "Drawing Tools"
 palette or use the "Create Object" command
 (Object menu), and drag the pointer on the page.
 The object is drawn between the points where you
 drag the mouse.

 Once created,  INFORMATION  can be obtained
 on an object. The information available will
 include, its position and size, its colour and
 other attributes concerning its style.

 The Ctrl key, when creating an object, will
 constrain its size as follows:
   Line ........... Constrains line to 90°
   Box ............ Constrains box to a square
   Oval ........... Constrain oval to a circle
   TextEffects .... Constrains frame to a square
   Text Frame ..... Constrains frame to a square
   Picture Frame .. Constrains frame to a square
   Table .......... Constrains Table to a square

 To cancel the creation of an object, press the
 Menu button whilst holding down the Selection
 button when it is being created.



* USING OBJECTS
 Placing A Picture

 Choose "Place Picture" (Object menu) to place a
 picture into your document. Wordworth accepts
 any standard Amiga IFF graphics file, any
 resolution or size, from 2 to 256 colours, 4096
 colours (HAM), or 256,000 colours (HAM8).

 You can also place pictures in other bitmap
 formats including BMP, PCX, GIF, TIFF and IMG.

 Alternatively, select the "Picture Frame" object
 from either the "Drawing Tools" palette or "Create
 Object" command (Object menu) and drag a frame on
 the page.

 With the frame selected, choose "Place Picture" to
 import the graphic into the frame.

 This is useful if you wish to place a picture that
 is much bigger than needed on the page. You dictate
 the size of the picture by creating the frame to the
 size you wish the picture to be.

  INFORMATION  on pictures can be obtained to enable
 you to specify if the picture is "Hot Linked" or
 "Cool Linked", whether "Colour 0" is transparent,
 the dimensions and position of the picture and
 whether you wish to have "Text Flow" around the
 picture.

 NOTE: You cannot use "Contour Text Flow" around CGM
 pictures.


 Vector Graphics
 Wordworth 3 also supports the  EPS , CGM and GEM
 Vector graphic formats.

 A Scalable Vector graphic is like an outline font
 and can be scaled to any size without loss of
 quality. This also means that when printing, you
 get perfect quality printouts.

 Due to their complexity, Vector graphics are
 slower to manipulate and print than bitmapped
 pictures.


 NOTE: Floppy disk users may find that placing
 pictures in any other format than IFF and CGM will
 not work.

 This is because the other picture formats are
 disabled by default. To enable them, just drag the
 appropriate filters out of the Storage drawer (found
 in the `Filters/Pictures' drawer, Ww3Outlines disk)
 into the `Filters/Pictures' drawer and re-run the
 program.



* USING OBJECTS
 Using EPS Scalable Pictures

 An EPS Scalable picture is like an outline font
 and can be scaled to any size without loss of
 quality. This also means that when printing, you
 get perfect quality printouts.

 Choose "Place Picture" (Object menu) to place an
 EPS picture on the page, or within a pre-drawn
 picture frame.

 You may notice that the screen display of your
 EPS pictures is not very good, this is because the
 picture used on-screen is only a preview of the
 picture. The picture will, however, print at the
 highest possible quality.

 Due to their complexity, Vector graphics are
 slower to manipulate and print than bitmapped
 pictures.

 NOTE: EPS picture support is only available for
 hard disk users who have at least 3MB of memory.


 Advanced Users
 Within the Wordworth3/WwFiles drawer there is a
 text file called `eps_init.ps', this file is a
 prologue for EPS graphics and can be edited if
 wanted.
 
 The last line of the file can be altered to
 change the halftone dithering of a graphic to
 improve the quality of the printed picture.



* USING OBJECTS
 Arranging The Depth Of Objects

 You can specify the depth of an object in
 relation to the other objects on the page.

 To move an object in front of another, select
 it and choose "Move Forward" (Object menu),
 "Move Backward" will move the object behind
 another.

 You can move an object right to the back of all
 other objects by choosing "Send to Back"
 (Object menu), or to the front using "Bring to
 Front" (Object menu).




* USING OBJECTS
 Duplicating Objects

 Choose Duplicate (Object menu) to quickly
 clone any selected objects.


 NOTE: The text within `Text Frames' and Tables
 is not duplicated with the object when using
 this command.



* USING OBJECTS
 Add Object To All Pages

 Choose "Add To All Pages" (Object menu) to add
 any selected objects to all pages in your
 document. Any new pages that are created will
 have these objects automatically placed on them.

 To delete an individual object from one page,
 select it, press the Del key (or choose Erase,
 Edit menu), and click Selected when asked which
 objects you wish to delete.

 To delete an object from all pages, select one
 of the objects, press the Del key (or choose Erase,
 Edit menu), and click "All Pages" when asked which
 objects you wish to delete.
 

 NOTE: Tables and `grouped' objects cannot be
 added to all pages.



* USING OBJECTS
 Grouping And Ungrouping Objects

 Use the Group command (Object menu) to make
 multiple objects act as one object, (for example,
 a group of objects all move together and are
 sized together)

 Use Ungroup (Object menu) to split the group
 into its original separate elements.



* USING OBJECTS
 Information About Objects

 Use the  CREATE OBJECT  command (Object menu)
 to create an object on the page.

 When an object is selected, you can inspect its
 attributes by either double-clicking it, or
 choosing the Information command (Object Menu).

 Information about an object may consist of its
 position on the page, dimensions, colour, border
 style and colour, if it repels text and so on.

 NOTE: When you type information into a text
 gadget, you must complete the entry by pressing
 the Return key, otherwise the entry may be ignored.



* USING OBJECTS
 Locking And Unlocking Objects

 An object, can be locked onto the page so that it
 cannot be deleted, moved or changed. Choose Lock
 (Object menu) to lock all selected objects to the
 page, Unlock (Object menu) reverses the lock
 command.

 When the mouse pointer moves over a locked object,
 it changes into a padlock. A locked object also
 has hollow handles when selected.



* OBJECTS
 Moving An Object

 Move an object by selecting the object and while
 holding down the Selection button, move the
 outline of the object to its new position.

 The Ctrl key, when moving an object, will
 keep the object along the same horizontal or
 vertical axis.

 To cancel the moving of an object, press the
 Menu button whilst holding down the Selection
 button.

 Precise positioning can be obtained by selecting
 the object, and choosing  INFORMATION  (Object
 menu).

 Whilst text flow is switched on, objects cannot be
 moved between pages. This also applies to objects
 that have been `Added to all pages'.
