

 CONTENTS

 This section provides help about storing and
 opening your documents, creating new documents
 and how to finish your session with Wordworth.

    CREATING A DOCUMENT TEMPLATE 
    CREATING A NEW DOCUMENT 
    CREATING A SEPARATE DOCUMENT DISK 
    DOCUMENT TEMPLATES 

    OPENING A PREVIOUSLY SAVED DOCUMENT 
    OPENING A DOCUMENT FROM A SEPARATE FLOPPY DISK 
    OPENING A DOCUMENT IN A DIFFERENT FORMAT 
    OPENING A RECENTLY OPENED DOCUMENT 
    OPENING YOUR LAST SAVED DOCUMENT 

    DELETING A DOCUMENT 
    CLOSING YOUR DOCUMENT 

    SAVING YOUR DOCUMENT 
    SAVING YOUR DOCUMENT ONTO A SEPARATE FLOPPY DISK 
    SAVING YOUR DOCUMENT IN A DIFFERENT FORMAT 

    QUITTING WORDWORTH 



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Creating A Document Template

 Once a document template has been designed and
 created, you can save it so that it can be used
 again and again.

 Choose  SAVE AS  (Project menu), and select the
 "Wordworth Template" option from the list. Then
 type the template name and destination.

 It is a good idea to save all document templates
 in one drawer. When you create a  NEW DOCUMENT ,
 you are able to choose which template is open. A
 template is always opened into an `untitled'
 window.



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Creating A New Document

 Choose New (Project menu) to open a new document
 window with a blank page. A new document will
 use the current preferences if the Normal template
 is chosen.

 Instead of creating a new `normal' document, a
  DOCUMENT TEMPLATE  can be opened which will create
 a document in a given style (facsimile, memo,
 letter and so on).

 The "Print Method" ( PRINT SETUP  command, Project
 menu) determines the available typefaces. Check
 that your Print Method is correctly set for your
 document.



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Creating A Separate Document Disk

 To create a separate disk for storing your
 documents, you will need to `format' a blank disk
 for use with the Amiga.

 Place a blank disk into the internal drive and
 select the `DF0:????' icon that appears on the
 Workbench screen (the `DF0' means `device floppy 0'
 or internal drive, and the `????' means that the
 Amiga does not understand the disk).

 Once the disk icon has been selected, choose the
 "Format Disk" command from the Icons menu.

 A requester will appear asking you several things-
 Workbench 2.0:
   `OK'        - Formats the disk for use with the
                 Amiga.
   `OK Quick'  - Formats a previously formatted
                 Amiga disk. This option is much
                 quicker if you have already done
                 a full format.
   `Cancel'    - Cancels requester.

 Workbench 2.1 and above will have additional
 items:
   The `Volume Name'   - This is the name given to
                         the disk (for example,
                         `MyDocs')
   `Put Trashcan'      - This adds a trashcan icon
                         to the disk. Best to turn
                         this Off.
   `Fast File System'  - This makes Opening and
                         Saving to the disk much
                         quicker. It also gives you
                         80Kb more space. Leave this
                         turned On.
   `International Mode'- This is for foreign languages
                         where accented characters
                         are used in filenames. Leave
                         Off.
   `Directory Cache'   - Speeds up disk access by
                         remembering what was in the
                         directories. Uses up memory,
                         therefore leave turned Off.


 Once formatted, the disk can be accessed from any
 file requester by typing the name of the disk,
 into the Drawer text gadget, followed by a colon
 (:). This tells the Amiga to ask for a disk of
 the specified name.

 For example, typing `MyDocs:' into the Drawer
 gadget will display a requester asking you to
 `Insert Volume MyDocs in any drive'.



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Opening A Previously Saved Document

 Open (Project menu) displays a requester, from
 which you can select the document you want to
 open.

 If you wish to open a file that is not a
 Wordworth document, just open it as normal and
 Wordworth will detect the format and try to open
 it automatically.

 You can also open the last revision of the
 document you were editing by choosing
  LAST SAVED  (Project menu).

 The default documents drawer can be changed
 using  CHANGE SETTINGS  (Settings menu).

 "Print Method" ( PRINT SETUP , Project menu)
 determines the available typefaces. Check that
 your "Print Method" is set correctly for your
 document.

 
 IMPORTANT
 When opening Wordworth v1.1 or v2 documents,
 you may find that coloured text sometimes appears
 in the wrong colours.
 
 This is because of the new advanced `named' colour
 system that Wordworth v3 uses compared to the
 previous system employed in v2 and v3.



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Opening A Document In A Different Format

 To open a document in a format other than
 Wordworth, just choose Open (Project menu),
 select the file from the requester and the
 document will be opened automatically.

 Wordworth can open formats saved in the following
 formats:
   ° Rich Text Format (RTF)
   ° Wordperfect for Dos
   ° Word for Dos
   ° Works for Windows
   ° Windows Write
   ° Wordstar
   ° ASCII

 When opening documents saved in different formats,
 you may notice that the fonts used are incorrect.

 To get Wordworth to use the correct fonts, you will
 need to edit a text file called `FontTranslations'
 which is in the `WwFonts/UFST' drawer.

 This file informs Wordworth which font it should
 map the documents fonts to, as fonts on different
 systems are named slightly differently.
 

 Floppy Disk Users
 By default, you will only be able to open
 Wordworth, ASCII or RTF documents, as the other
 file filters have been installed into a Storage
 drawer (to disable them).

 To use the other document formats, just drag the
 appropriate filters out of the Storage drawer
 (found in the `Filters/Text' drawer, Ww3Outlines
 disk) into the `Filters/Text' drawer and re-run
 the program.


 NOTE: For the best results, we recommend you use
 the RTF filter as it is a well known standard
 file format with implementations on most modern
 word processors.



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Opening A Document From A Separate Floppy Disk

 Open (Project menu) displays a requester, from
 which you can select the document and disk you
 want to open.

 To view the contents of a separate disk, type
 the disk name into the Drawer text gadget
 followed by a colon (:).

 The disk name is displayed under the disk icon
 on Workbench when the disk is inserted into a
 disk drive.

 When the Return key is pressed, you will be
 prompted to insert this disk, after which you
 will be shown its contents.

 For example, if you have a disk that was named
 `MyDocs' you would need to type `MyDocs:' into
 the Drawer text gadget on the "Open Document"
 requester before pressing the Return key.


 See also:
  OPENING A PREVIOUSLY SAVED DOCUMENT 



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Opening a Recently Opened Document

 The "Open Recent" sub-menu (Project menu) shows
 the last five most recently opened documents.

 This command is extremely useful for quickly
 opening a document that you were editing in a
 previous session, without having to search
 through your disks to find it.



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Opening Your Last Saved Document

 Choose "Last Saved" (Project menu) to revert to
 the last saved revision of your document.

 This command will replace the current document
 with the previously saved revision of the same
 document.



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Deleting A Document

 Documents can be deleted from either the "Save As"
 command or Open command (Project menu).

 To delete a document, select the file from the
 list in the file requester and choose the Delete
 command from the file requester Control menu.



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Document Templates

 You can  SAVE  a Wordworth document
 as a template for new documents. The template
 document retains all the formatting and contents
 of the original document and remains intact so
 that it can be used over again.

 When you  OPEN  a Wordworth document template
 it is opened into an `untitled' window, this can
 then be changed as necessary and you can
 save it with the name of your choice.



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Closing Your Document

 To close a document, either:
   ° Click the window close gadget (the small
     white box in the top left hand corner of the
     document window)
   ° Choose Close (Project menu)

 If you close a new or modified document,
 Wordworth will ask if you wish to save the
 changes before closing it.



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Saving Your Document

 Save (Project menu) will save the current
 document to disk, in "Wordworth Document" format,
 using the current document name. If the document
 is untitled, you will be prompted for the name and
 destination of the file.

 If you wish to save the document to a different
 destination, or using a different name of file
 format, choose "Save As" (Project menu).

 "Save As" will allow you to specify:
    ° Document name
    ° Drive and directory to store the document
    °  DOCUMENT FILE FORMAT  (that is, a different
      format to the normal Wordworth style)



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Saving Your Document Onto A Separate Floppy Disk

 Choose "Save As" from the Project menu and type
 the disk name, followed by a colon (:), into the
 Drawer text gadget of the disk you wish to save
 the document onto.

 The disk name is displayed under the disk icon
 on Workbench when the disk is inserted into a
 disk drive.

 When the Return key is pressed, you will be
 prompted to insert this disk after which you
 will be shown the contents of the disk.

 For example, if you have a disk that was named
 `MyDocs' you would need to type `MyDocs:' into
 the Drawer text gadget on the "Save As" requester
 before pressing the Return key.

 See also:
  SAVING YOUR DOCUMENT 



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Saving Your Document In A Different Format

 To save your document in a format other than
 Wordworth, choose "Save As" (Project menu),
 select one of the formats from the "File Format"
 list, and then type the name and destination.

 If you wish to save a document so that it can be
 used on earlier versions of Wordworth 3, then
 choose the `Wordworth 3.0' format from the list.

 This is because Wordworth 3.1 uses a fast loading
 file format and is therefore incompatible with
 earlier versions.

 When opening a document in a format other than
 Wordworth, the type of format will be detected
 automatically.


 NOTE: For the best results, we recommend you use
 the RTF filter as it is a well known standard
 file format with implementations on most modern
 word processors.



* FILE MANAGEMENT
 Quitting Wordworth

 Quit (Project menu) ends a Wordworth session and
 returns you to the Workbench.

 If you quit without saving changes to a document
 Wordworth asks if you wish to save these changes
 before exiting.
