

 CONTENTS

 This section of help will give advice on how
 to create and change text and objects in your
 documents:

    CHANGING THE APPEARANCE OF TEXT 
    COPYING OR MOVING TEXT AND OBJECTS 
    DRAG AND DROP TEXT EDITING 
    DRAWING A LINE, OVAL, OR BOX 
    DRAWING OBJECTS 
    ERASING TEXT AND OBJECTS 
    FINDING AND REPLACING TEXT 
    INSERTING OR CREATING AN OBJECT 
    INSTALLING ADDITIONAL FONTS 
    REPEATING YOUR LAST COMMAND 
    SELECTING TEXT AND OBJECTS 
    TYPING TEXT INTO YOUR DOCUMENT 
    UNDOING YOUR LAST ACTION 
    USING COLOURS 


 You can insert different items into your
 document to create lists or number pages:

    INSERTING A BOOKMARK 
    INSERTING AN ENDNOTE 
    INSERTING A FOREIGN CHARACTER OR SPECIAL SYMBOL 
    INSERTING A HEADER OR FOOTER 
    INSERTING AN INDEX ENTRY 
    INSERTING A LIST ENTRY 
    INSERTING AN OBJECT 
    INSERTING A PAGE OR COLUMN BREAK 
    INSERTING A PAGE NUMBER OR PAGE COUNT 
    INSERTING THE DATE AND TIME 


 Wordworth allows you to move through your
 document in many ways:

    GOING TO A SPECIFIC PART OF A DOCUMENT 
    MOVING THE INSERTION POINT 


 Wordworth has different tools to aid in the
 construction of a document:

    CALCULATING NUMBER IN A TABLE 
    CREATING AN INDEX 
    CREATING A LIST 
    CREATING A TABLE OF CONTENTS 
    GETTING STATISTICS ABOUT YOUR DOCUMENT 
    SORTING TEXT 
    SPEECH 
    SPELL CHECKING YOUR DOCUMENT 
    USING AUTO CORRECT 
    USING THE LIBRARIAN 
    USING THE THESAURUS 




* TYPING AND EDITING
 Changing The Appearance Of Text

 You can change the appearance of your text by:
    ° Using a different font (design of character)
    ° Using a different size
    ° Applying a  TEXT STYLE  to the character
      (italic, bold etc.)
    ° Using a different colour

 These different methods can be applied by
 using the  MENUS ,  TOOLBAR  or  RULER .

 To change the Font type, size, style or colour,
 choose the Font command  (Format menu).
 From this requester you can change all the
 styles of a font; you can also change its
 Kerning (space between certain pairs of
 letters), and Tracking (overall space between
 letters).

 The  FONT FORMAT  requester can be
 displayed by selecting the `AZ' icon on the
 toolbar.

 Using the Ruler you can change the Font by
 selecting a different name from the Font
 gadget. You can change the size of the font
 by either typing a figure into the size
 gadget or selecting from its pop up list.

 Different text styles can be changed by
 selecting one of the four buttons; P - Plain,
 B - Bold, I - Italic and U - Underline.
 You can also mix the styles of bold, italic
 and underline.

 To turn all styles off, select P for Plain text.

 Alternatively, the text styles can be changed
 from the Format menu.

 Different background and text colours can be
 applied to any text from the Font command
 (Format menu). See also:   USING COLOURS 



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Copying Or Moving Text And Objects

 You can copy and move text or objects using
 the clipboard.

 The following commands from the Edit menu
 manipulate the clipboard and its contents:
   ° Cut   - Delete selected text or object
             and store it on the clipboard.

   ° Copy  - Copy selected text or object to
             the clipboard.

   ° Paste - Insert contents of the clipboard
             at the insertion point.

   ° Erase - Erase the selected text or object.

 Once text or objects have been placed on the
 clipboard, you can repeatedly paste the
 contents into the same document, or another
 Wordworth document.


 Using the keyboard:
   ° Right Amiga-X     Cut selected text or
                       object to clipboard
   ° Right Amiga-C     Copy selected text or
                       object to clipboard
   ° Right Amiga-V     Paste clipboard contents
                       at insertion point
   ° Del               Erase selection
   ° Backspace         Erase selection


 Using the toolbar:
   Cut, Copy and Paste can also be selected
   from the  TOOLBAR  by clicking on
   the appropriate icon.

 The paragraph format can also be copied and
 pasted to subsequent paragraphs by pressing
 Right Amiga Shift-C and Right Amiga Shift-V.

 Cutting and pasting Text Frame or Table objects
 only pastes the object and not the text inside.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Erasing Text And Objects

 You can erase any selected text or objects by
 pressing either the Backspace or Del keys, or
 choosing Erase (Edit menu).

 To erase text, you press the Del key to delete
 the character to the right of the insertion
 point, and the Backspace `<-' key to delete
 the character to the left.

 If you wish to delete  SELECTIONS OF TEXT ,
 highlight the text using the mouse select key
 and either press the Del or Backspace keys, or
 choose Erase (Edit menu).


 Any object can be deleted by  SELECTING  it
 with the mouse pointer then pressing the Del
 or Backspace key, or choosing Erase
 (Edit menu).

 Groups of objects can be deleted by multiply
 selecting the objects with the Shift key and
 pressing the Del key.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Finding And Replacing Text

 Choose Find command (Edit menu) to find and
 replace occurrences of text with new text you
 specify.

 The Find requester may be left open whilst
 editing the document.

 To the left of the Find and "Replace With"
 text gadgets, there are popup buttons (a
 button with a triangle in it) which when
 selected will display the previous entries.
 The item you select from the popup list will
 be placed into the text gadget for editing.

 Special text codes, fonts, and styles may be
 searched for and replaced by choosing from
 Font pop-up to the right of the text gadget.

 You can also find and replace styles of text
 by selecting Font from the Font pop-up.


 Find Again

 Choose "Find Again" (Edit menu) to find the
 next occurrence of the text you specified
 using the Find command.


 NOTE: The Find and "Find Again" commands only
 operate within the current text frame.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Repeat

 Choose Repeat (Edit menu) to repeat the last
 command from the Format menu.

 This command is extremely useful for repeating
 the last font or paragraph change, to other
 selections of text.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Selecting Text And Objects

 You can select any number of objects or text
 with either the mouse or keyboard.

 For information on how to the select objects with
 the mouse or keyboard, see
  SELECTING AND SIZING OBJECTS , or on the
 selection of text, see  SELECTING TEXT 



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Typing Text Into Your Document

 To type text into your document, just activate
 the main document page by clicking on it and
 start typing.

 Text frames need to be selected (by clicking on
 them) before you can start typing in them.


 Foreign Characters
 The Amiga has a facility called `dead keys' which
 enable you to type foreign characters like ä and
 é.

 To do this, hold down the Left-Alt key and then
 press one of the dead keys - F, G, H, J, or K.
 The next letter that you type will then appear
 with a foreign accent above it.

 For example, if you press Left-Amiga K and then A,
 the character ä appears.

   ° F dead key produces ´
   ° G dead key produces `
   ° H dead key produces ^
   ° J dead key produces ~
   ° K dead key produces ¨



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Undoing Your Last Action

 Choose Undo (Edit menu) or press Right Amiga-Z
 to undo your previous deletion.

 When not available, the Undo command will be
 dimmed.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Using Colours

 Wordworth uses `named colours' which means that
 you can define a certain colour to a defined name.
 This new colour can then be used with the drawing
 tools, objects or text.

 Only colours in the list can be applied to
 objects or text. If you need a colour that is not
 in the list, simply define a new one.

 If you are in a screen mode that only allows
 8 colours for example, you may not see the
 exact colour that you specified on the screen
 because of the lack of available colours.
 However, the document will always print using the
 colours you specified and not those shown on
 screen, which may be incorrect.

 Colours can be defined from the Colours command
 (Edit menu) or by selecting the Define entry in a
 colour pop-up.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Inserting A Bookmark

 Bookmarks are placed in your document at points
 where you wish to jump to later. For example,
 you could place a bookmark at each chapter of a
 book, or each section of a report and then choose
  (Edit menu) to jump to any one of
 those positions quickly.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Inserting An Endnote

 An automatically numbered endnote number will be
 placed at the insertion point and the insertion
 point will move to the endnotes at the end of
 the document ready for editing.

 Type the text for the endnote and then press
 ALT-Esc to return to your previous position in
 the document.

 You can move the insertion point to any endnote
 reference by choosing  (Edit menu).



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Inserting A Foreign Character Or Special Symbol

 To insert special characters, choose Insert
 (Edit menu). Select Symbol from the list
 click a foreign character or symbol to place it
 into text gadget.

 When you have chosen all of the characters you
 wish to insert, click Insert to place the contents
 of the text gadget into your document at the
 insertion point.


 See also
   TYPING TEXT INTO YOUR DOCUMENT 



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Inserting A Header Or Footer

 To insert a header or footer on all pages click
 the text frame at the top or bottom of the page.
 The header or footer frame will then become
 active, and a flashing cursor will appear for
 you to type text.

 To return to editing the main document, just
 click the main document page.

 Headers and Footers can be turned on or off from
 the Document Options requester (Format menu).

 In a `facing pages' document, different headers
 and footers can be placed on left and right
 pages by entering the appropriate text on either
 page.


 NOTE: You must have enough room in your header or
 footer to contain the height of text you wish to
 insert.

 Ensure the "Top Margin" (Document Format) plus the
 height of the characters is greater than the Header
 margin (Document-Options).



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Inserting An Index Entry

 Indexes can be automatically generated by placing
 `Index Entries' at the text that you wish to be
 included.

 By placing `Index Entries' (Insert command, Edit
 menu) in your text and then choosing the
  CREATE INDEX  command (Tools menu) you
 can easily compile an index which is automatically
 placed at the end of the document.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Inserting A List Entry

 List creation is used for compiling lists like
 tables of figures or diagrams.

 By placing `List Entries' (Insert command, Edit
 menu) in your text and then choosing the
  CREATE LIST  command (Tools menu) you
 can easily compile a list which is automatically
 placed at the insertion point.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Inserting A Page Or Column Break

 Wordworth automatically paginates your document
 as you type past the end of a page and on to
 the next page.

 You can manually paginate (before you get to the
 bottom of the page) by choosing the Insert command
 (Edit menu) and selecting "Page Break" from the
 list.

 Column breaks, moving onto the next column, can
 be inserted by selecting "Column Break" from the
 Insert command (Edit menu).



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Inserting The Page Number And Page Count

 Choose Insert (Edit menu) and select
 "Page Number" from the list to place the current
 page number at the insertion point.

 The  NUMBERING STYLE  can be specified to
 display the page number as a roman numeral,
 a letter or a number.

 The total page count can also be placed at the
 insertion point by choosing Insert and selecting
 the "Page Count" from the list. This is useful
 for numbers such as `Page 1 of 15'.


 NOTE: Page numbers and page counts can only be
 inserted into headers or footers.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Inserting The Date And Time

 Choose Insert (Edit menu) and select one of the
 date or time options:

   ° Current Date  - Inserts the current date at
                     the insertion point.

   ° Updating Date - Inserts a date command,
                     `{-DATE-}', at the insertion
                     point, which is replaced by
                     the current date at the time
                     of printing.

   ° Current Time  - Inserts the current time at
                     the insertion point.

   ° Updating Time - Inserts a time command,
                     `{-TIME-}', at the
                     insertion point, which is
                     replaced by the current time
                     at the time of printing.

 The date and time format can be set from the Options
 button on the "Document Format" requester (Document
 command, Format menu).



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Going To A Specific Part Of A Document

 Choose "Go To" command (Edit menu) to move to a
 chosen page or previously specified Bookmark or
 Endnote.

 To go to a page, type the page number into the
 text gadget and click "Go To".

 To go to a Bookmark, either double-click the
 bookmark name in the list or select the name
 and click "Go To".

 The Endnote name, when double-clicked, will move
 the insertion point to the position where the
 endnote was inserted.

  ENDNOTES  and  BOOKMARKS  can be inserted into
 a document from the Insert command (Edit menu).



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Moving The Insertion Point

 The insertion point can be moved by using the
 cursor keys Up, Down, Left or Right.

 You can also use the mouse to position the
 pointer in the text and then click to place the
 insertion point there.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Creating An Index

 An Index can be automatically generated by
 inserting  INDEX ENTRIES  and then choosing
 "Create Index" (Tools menu).

 All index entries are collated, sorted and
 compiled into an index and inserted at the end
 of the document.

 The index can be customised in several ways
 before being inserted:

  ° Letter headings (A, B, C...) placed above
    each letter group

  ° Index entries that appear on consecutive
    pages (e.g. 3,4,5,6) shown as page ranges
    (e.g. 3-6)

  ° The text that is placed before and between
    page numbers, between page ranges, and in
    front of indented subentries



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Creating A List

 List creation is used for compiling lists like
 tables of figures or diagrams. You insert
  LIST ENTRIES  into your document from
 the Insert command (Edit menu).

 When a list is created, these list entries will
 be collated into page number order and inserted
 at the insertion point.

 The addition of page numbers in the list can be
 specified from this command.

 See also:   CREATING A TABLE OF CONTENTS 



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Creating A Table Of Contents

 To create a Table of Contents, insert
  LIST ENTRIES  in the document as for a
 plain list and specify the level of each
 insertion so that the Table of Contents
 will be compiled correctly.

 To insert the Table of Contents into the document
 at the insertion point, choose the "Create List"
 command (Tools menu) and select "Table Of Contents"
 from the top list gadget.

 You can customise the Table Of Contents by
 specifying which subentry levels to included in
 the ToC (e.g. you could limit it to only levels
 one and two). You can also specify whether page
 numbers should be shown for each level or only
 the lowest levels.

 See also:   CREATING A LIST 



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Getting Statistics On Your Document

 Choose Statistics (Tools menu) to display
 information about your document. Divided into
 two requesters, these contain:
   Document name, directory path, description,
   creation date, last saved date, by whom,
   revision number, editing time, date of last
   printout.

 Text statistics include:
   Number of - Characters, words, lines,
   paragraphs, pages, pictures.

   This information relates to all of the document,
   or the currently selected text.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Sorting Text

 Block select the paragraphs you wish to sort and
 choose Sort (Tools menu).

 Select the sort order ( A-Z or Z-A ) and click
 Sort. The paragraphs will be sorted
 alphabetically on the text at the beginning
 of each paragraph.

 If you wish to sort a list of names or numbers,
 then place each item on a new line (separated
 by a carriage return) before sorting.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Calculating Figures In A Table

 You can calculate the total, average, minimum
 or maximum number of a row or column of figures
 by placing the insertion point in the cell you
 wish the result to be placed and choose Calculate
 (Tools menu).

 From the Calculate requester, you can select
 which mathematical operation you wish to perform
 and whether you would like it based on the cells
 above or to the left of the current cell.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Speech

 Choose Speech command (Utilities menu) to select
 a male, female, robot or natural voice; you can
 also set the pitch and speed.

 Speech can be used for the entire document,
 selected text, or talk-while-you-type.

 IMPORTANT
 Workbench 3.0 and 2.1 users: Unfortunately, the
 Workbench license does not allow us to distribute
 the Commodore Speech files with Wordworth and
 therefore you will not be able to use this facility.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Using The Spell Checker

 Choose "Spell Check" (Tools menu) to check
 the spelling of the entire document from the
 position of the insertion point, against the
 English Collins dictionary.

 To spell check a word, first select it and
 then choose "Spell Check" (Tools menu).

 You can add a word to the User Dictionary by
 clicking Learn from the "Spell Check" requester.

 You can also add your own words, delete or edit
 words in your User Dictionary, which
 supplements the Collins Dictionary, by
 choosing Spell from the  CHANGE SETTINGS 
 command (Settings menu).

 NOTE: "Spell Check" only checks the words in the
 current text frame.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Using Auto Correct

 Choose "Auto Correct" (Tools menu) to
 automatically replace commonly misspelt words.
 You can then edit the words from the list. For
 example, you may commonly misspell the word `the'
 by transposing the two first letters, `hte'. This
 mistake will be deleted by Wordworth as you type
 and corrected automatically.

 This command can also be used for abbreviations.
 For example, if you typed `Digita International
 Limited' in your document many times, it would
 be easier to add the words to the Auto Correct
 list for `di' to be replaced with `Digita
 International Limited'.

 Additionally, Auto Correct can be used to
 automatically correct the capitalisation of the
 days of the week, and months of a year.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Using The Librarian

 Choose Librarian (Tools menu) to save common
 phrases and then quickly insert them into your
 document.

 You can select large amounts of text, your
 address for example, and add them to the
 librarian. These can then be inserted into your
 text.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Using The Thesaurus

 Choose Thesaurus (Tools menu) to check synonyms
 and parts of speech of a selected word against
 the English Collins thesaurus.

 The word closest to the insertion point will
 automatically be used by the Thesaurus for its
 first search. All previous searches in each
 session are shown in the Word pop-up text gadget.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Drag And Drop Text Editing

 Drag and Drop editing is the easiest way to move
 or copy a selection of text in one operation.

 To move text using Drag and Drop editing:
 1. Select the text you wish to move

 2. Point to the selected text and then hold down
    the Selection button.

    When the Drag and Drop pointer appears (a
    pointer with a grey box beneath it), drag the
    dotted insertion point that appears in the
    text, to the new location.

 3. Release the Selection button to drop the text
    in place.


 To copy text using Drag and Drop editing:
 1. Select the text you wish to copy

 2. Point to the selected text, hold down the
    Selection button and depress the Ctrl key.

    When the Drag and Drop pointer appears (a
    pointer with a grey box beneath it and a plus
    sign in the corner), drag the dotted
    insertion point that appears in the text, to
    the new location.

 3. Release the Selection button to drop the text
    in place.


 Drag and Drop can be turned on and off from the
  TEXT SETTINGS  requester ("Change Settings"
 command, Settings menu).

 NOTE: You cannot Drag and Drop text between table
 cells.

 Drag and Drop usually works best if you set the
 Workbench Input preferences to use a smaller
 `Double-click Delay'.



* TYPING AND EDITING
 Installing Additional Fonts

 There are two methods to install additional
 Outline or Compugraphic fonts (for example
 Agfa, PostScript or TrueType fonts):

 1. Copy the appropriate font files into the
    Intellifont, PostScript or TrueType
    drawers which are within the WwFonts drawer.
     ° Agfa Intellifont font files will be suffixed
       by `.type' or `.lib',
     ° PostScript fonts will end in `.pfb',
     ° TrueType fonts end in `.ttf'

    NOTE: The WwFonts drawer is located in the
    Wordworth3 drawer on your hard disk, or on the
    Ww3Outlines disk if you are running from
    floppy disk.


    To install the fonts that you have just
    copied, double-click the `InstallOutlines'
    tool (WwTools drawer).

    NOTE: The WwTools drawer is located in the
    Wordworth3 drawer on your hard disk, or on
    the Ww3Extras disk if you are running from
    floppy disk.


 2. Select the `InstallOutlines' tool, which is
    located in the WwTools drawer, and choose
    Information from the Workbench-Icons menu.

    On the Information requester, there is a list
    of `Tool Types', these Tool Types are used to
    tell the tool which fonts to install for
    Wordworth 3.

    For example, if you have some fonts on a
    separate disk called `CGFonts_1', click New on
    the Information requester and type
      `FONTPATH=CGFonts_1:'.
    Press Return and click Save (the colon `:' is
    used to tell the Amiga that you are looking for
    a disk).

    Double-click the `InstallOutlines' tool to
    install the fonts on this disk for use with
    Wordworth.


    IMPORTANT
    Only one `FONTPATH' Tool Type should be enabled
    when installing. To disable a Tool Type you
    should place brackets around the string.

    Many Tool Types have already been added to the
    Information requester for the most common font
    disks, therefore select the one that is most
    appropriate and delete the brackets. Press
    Return, click Save, and double-click to install.



 Example Scenarios:
 A. I am using a hard disk and I have Wordworth
    Special Edition. I wish to use the fonts
    supplied with my old version of Wordworth with
    the new Wordworth 3.

    I am, however, going to delete the Special
    Edition version off my hard disk afterwards.
    ----------------------------------------------
    You will need to follow step 1 above -
    Open up your `Wordworth Special Edition'
    Intellifont drawer and choose the
    `Show - All Files' command from the Workbench
    Windows menu.

    Next, open up the Wordworth 3 WwFonts drawer,
    and for each of the font files ending in `.type',
    select and drop the file onto the Wordworth 3
    Intellifont drawer.

    Finally, to install the fonts you have just
    copied to Wordworth 3, double-click the
    `InstallOutlines' tool which you will
    find in the WwTools drawer on your hard disk.


 B. I want to use the AgfaFonts disks that came
    with Wordworth 2, with Wordworth 3. I am
    running Wordworth from floppy disks.
    ----------------------------------------------
    Firstly, you will need to make new backup copies
    of your original AgfaFonts1 and AgfaFonts2
    disks.

    Next, select the `InstallOutlines' tool, which
    is located in the WwTools drawer on the
    Ww3Extras disk, and select the Tool Type which
    says `(FONTPATH=AgfaFonts1:Intellifont)'.

    The tool type should then appear in the text
    gadget beneath the list. Delete the brackets
    at the beginning and end of the string and
    press Return.

    Click Save and then double-click the tool to
    install the fonts on the AgfaFonts1 disk for
    use with Wordworth 3.

    To install the fonts on AgfaFonts2, select the
    tool type you have just changed and type
    brackets around the string.

    Select the tool type with the text
    `(FONTPATH=AgfaFonts2:Intellifont)' and delete
    the brackets. Press Return and double-click
    `InstallOutlines' to install.
