

 CONTENTS

 The first time you print, you will need to make
 sure that Wordworth and your printer are set up
 correctly.

    SETTING UP A POSTSCRIPT PRINTER 
    SETTING UP YOUR PRINTER 


 Once setup, the document can be printed in
 different ways:

    PRINTING A LANDSCAPE DOCUMENT 
    PRINTING YOUR DOCUMENT 
    MAIL MERGING DOCUMENTS 




* PRINTING FILES
 Setting Up Your Printer

 The "Print Setup" requester is used to configure
 the settings for your printer, including the
 printer driver used by Wordworth when printing.
 The driver can be changed by selecting the
 appropriate name from the list gadget.

 Print Method:
   Determines what fonts are available when
   editing (the default is Normal):
     ° Normal       - Agfa Compugraphic, Adobe
                      PostScript Type 1, TrueType
                      and Amiga fonts with
                      graphics.
     ° Printer Font - Internal printer fonts only
                      and no graphics.
     ° PostScript   - PostScript printers only,
                      see also  POSTSCRIPT OPTIONS .


 Paper Type:
   Determines what type of paper is used for
   printing.
     ° Continuous   - Assumes continuous paper and
                      so does not ask for more
                      paper.
     ° Cut sheet    - Asks for more paper and may
                      need "Print Border" settings.
     ° Sheet feeder - Assumes multiple sheets and
                      so does not ask for more
                      paper. May need "Print
                      Border" settings.


 Print Border:
   Sets the unprintable area of your printer to
   avoid blank sheets of paper being ejected
   between each printed page.

   Print borders, however, are unnecessary with
   Continuous paper.

   If you are not sure about the print borders of
   your printer, set the Top, Left and Right to
   0.25 inches and the Bottom to 1.0 inches.


 Buttons:
   ° Click Postscript to set  OPTIONS  for
     PostScript printing (if you have an expensive
     Type 1 PostScript printer).
   ° Click OK to accept the settings in the
     "Print Setup" requester
   ° Click Cancel to ignore any changes



* PRINTING FILES
 Printing Your Document

 Choose Print (Project menu) to print your
 document. If you have not already  SETUP 
 your printer, you must do first.

 From this requester you can select:
   ° Range of pages to print
   ° Number of copies to print
   ° Arrangement of the pages
   ° Draft mode
   ° What shade to print (Colour, Black & White
     or Grey)

 To print a range of pages:
   Select the Range radio button and type the
   page range in the adjacent text gadget (for
   example, type `2-5' if you wish to print
   pages 2 to 5 of your document).

 To print a single page:
   Select the Range radio button and type the
   page that you wish to print into the adjacent
   text gadget (for example, type `5' if you wish
   to print page 5 of your document).


 Buttons:
   ° Click Print to start printing
   ° Click Setup to go to the "Print Setup"
     requester
   ° Click Cancel to ignore any changes and exit
     the Print requester



* PRINTING FILES
 Mail Merging Documents

 This command allows you to combine a document
 with information from a database.

 You can `merge' Wordworth documents with any
 database that can export its data as an ASCII
 or DIF (Data Interchange Format) file.

 Wordworth also allows you to use  SPECIAL COMMANDS 
 that can control how data is merged with the
 document.



* PRINTING FILES
 Advanced Mail Merging

 There are several selective commands which you
 can use while mail merging. These commands are
 enclosed in chevrons (« or ») and are preceded
 by a colon (:) to distinguish them from normal
 fields.

 «:NEXT»
 This skips on to the next record in the database.
 It is useful when printing more than one record
 on a page, as in a document to print a sheet of
 labels.

 «:SKIP» and «:ENDSKIP»
 These two command precede and follow a group of
 field names where you want the empty fields to
 be filled with the contents from the following
 field. This is useful for addresses where some
 fields in the address could be empty and you
 don't want gaps in the middle of the address.

 «:IF "field" = "value" NEXT» and
 «:IF "field" = "value" STOP»
 These two commands allow conditional checks of
 the data in fields to allow the printing of only
 selected records.

 The first command will skip to the next record
 if the "field" contents match the "value". The
 second command will stop the printing of the
 document if the "field" matches the "value".

 Other operators that can be used in place of the
 equals:
   OPERATOR      MEANS
   <= (or =<)    Less than or equal to
   >= (or =>)    Greater than or equal to
   <>            Does not equal
   <             Less than
   >             Greater than
 
 NOTE: All comparisons are case insensitive.



* PRINTING FILES
 Printing A Document In Landscape

 To print a document in Landscape, you must first
 choose  DOCUMENT  (Format menu) and select the
 Landscape option (you will notice that the Width
 and Height measurements are swapped to produce
 a page on its side, a `Landscape' page). Then
 print the document as normal.

 Unfortunately, Landscape printing takes a while
 longer than Portrait.

 NOTE: You cannot print Landscape documents in the
       "Internal Printer Font" method.

       If you have Landscape turned on before
       changing to "Internal Printer Font" method,
       you will be warned that the page will be
       formatted back to Portrait.



* PRINTING FILES
 PostScript Printer Options

 Before you can print to a PostScript printer
 you must first change the "Print Method" ("Print
 Setup", Project menu) to PostScript.

 When editing the document you will find that you
 have eleven special `PS_' fonts available to you
 in the Font requester. These fonts are the
 standard PostScript fonts internal to most
 PostScript printers and, with combinations of Bold
 and Italic versions, gives you 35 typefaces to use.

 On screen, these printer fonts are displayed using
 the outline fonts available. For example, if you
 have a Times outline font installed, Wordworth
 will use this for display. If an appropriate font
 does not exist, the `Shannon Book' font will be
 used instead.

 To change the PostScript print options, choose
 "Print Setup" (Project menu) and ensure you are
 using the PostScript "Print Method". Click the
 PostScript button at the bottom of the requester
 to reveal the "PostScript Setup" requester.

 This requester will allow you to output the print
 job to a file or to the printer. If you are sending
 the printout to a Print Bureau, it is best to print
 to a file and then send the file on disk to be
 printed.

 From this requester, you can also Scale the output,
 Offset the position or Rotate it by changing the
 values in the appropriate text gadgets.

 NOTE: When using the rotate option, the PostScript
 page is rotated anti-clockwise around the bottom
 left corner. You may, therefore, need to Offset the
 page to see any printout.


 Downloading Fonts
 The gadget "Download Fonts" informs Wordworth to
 send all the PostScript fonts in your document to
 the printer before printing. This is used when
 using fonts which are not internal to the printer.

 Only PostScript Type 1 fonts can be downloaded to a
 printer and therefore, if you wish to use any of your
 Agfa Compugraphic fonts in a document, you will have
 to convert them to PostScript format before editing.

 Text will be printed in Courier if the font does
 not exist and is not one of the inbuilt fonts.

 The options on "Download Fonts" are as follows:
   ° "Once Only"  - Any new fonts are downloaded to
                    the printer once only.

                    If the printer is turned off,
                    you will need to re-download the
                    fonts using the "Every Time"
                    option.

   ° "Every Time" - All fonts are downloaded to the
                    printer every time the document
                    is printed.

   ° "Never"      - Fonts are never downloaded. If
                    a font is not internal, and it
                    has not been downloaded, the text
                    will be printed in Courier.
