

 "What's New In Wordworth 3.1"

 WHAT'S NEW IN 3.1

 Below you will find descriptions of the new features
 that have been added to Wordworth 3.1. These features
 have come about from ideas and suggestions sent to us
 by Wordworth users.

 If you have any suggestions on how we can improve
 Wordworth then please let us know at the addresses
 mentioned in the technical support section 

      Wordworth 3.1's New Features: 
   °    " Landscape printing has now been added for the  Normal 
        Print Method Project.

   °    " EPS Scalable picture support has now been added
      so you can import an EPS picture and print it
      on any printer (a hard disk and at least 3MB
      of memory are necessary).

   °  Major Speed Improvements in many areas: Loading
      and Saving, Formatting, Find/Replace, Drawing
      Tools, CGM handling, Printing.

   °  Typeface and Size are independant. This now
      allows you to have multiple typefaces in a
      selection and then change the size of all
      typefaces in the block.

   °  Shift-Click block selection has been added so
      that you can extend a text selection by holding
      down the Shift key and clicking elsewhere in the
      document.

   °  Improved Text filters for opening and saving.

   °  Due to improved printing technology, the "Print
      Borders" may have to be changed for some printers
      to eliminate blank pages being ejected after
      each page.

 

     Getting Technical Support"
 
   B GETTING TECHNICAL SUPPORT   

 Before contacting the Digita Technical Support,
 please read the section.


 To contact Digita Technical Support in the UK:

 Call:  0891 616 944 weekdays from 11am to 5pm.
        Calls are charged at 36p per minute cheap
        rate and 48p per minutes at all other
        times. Be sure to ask the permission of
        the telephone owner before calling.

 Fax:   01 395 268 893.

 Write: Wordworth Technical Support Department
        Digita International Limited
        Black Horse House
        Exmouth
        Devon EX8 1JL

 CIX:   digita cix
        Conferences - `digita' for general chat
                    - `digita.tech' for technical
                      support. Mail `digita cix'
                      for access to this closed
                      conference.

 CIS:   100031,3032 (or 100031.3032 compuserve.com)

 If you are outside the UK, contact your local
 Digita representative.


   I When phoning, please have ready the following   
 1 Wordworth version number (Refer About command,
   Project menu)
 2 Description of your computer system
 3 Detailed description of your problem


   I When writing, please provide the following  
 1 A stamped addressed padded envelope when
   enclosing disks for replacing or testing.
 2 Wordworth version number (Refer About command,
   Project menu)
 3 Description of your computer system
 4 Detailed description of your problem, with
   example documents and/or printouts.


   B IMPORTANT  
 Unfortunately, under no circumstances can Digita
 provide either telephone or written support to
 unregistered users.

