- This software is a playable demo of the forthcoming 
  major software release entitled "Capital Punishment". 
- This demo is being released by "Pxl computers" of Canada, 
  the company that created it.
- This software has been given to "Sadeness" for their 
  "AGA experience 2" CD-ROM.
- This software must not be changed by anybody outside "Pxl computers" 
  in any way, unless express written consent is obtained from "Pxl computers".
- This demo cannot be included in magazine distribution 
  unless written permission is obtained from "Pxl computers".
- This software is provided as is, and "Pxl computers" disclaims any and all 
  representations or warranties of any kind, whether express or implied, 
  with respect to it, including any implied warranties of merchantability 
  or fitness for a particular purpose.
- "Pxl computers" shall not be responsible for any loss or damage caused 
  by this software. "Pxl computers" shall not be liable for any direct, 
  indirect, special, incidental or consequential damage, arising out of 
  any use of this software.


"clickBOOM" is the entertainment software team of "Pxl computers" of Canada

(C) 1996 Pxl computers, Inc.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------



The plot of Capital Punishment


CAPITAL PUNISHMENT -  Vitally harmful severe treatment or suffering;

You are a warrior about to embark on a most dangerous journey.
Your goal is to dethrone the evil master of an immense castle.
You begin your mission in rancid, putrid catacombs of this castle. 
However, beware. The master is aware of your presence, 
and has placed guards on every floor.
You must work your way up to the top of the castle, and defeat 
all who stand in your way in order to battle the master.
Helping you along will be the spirit of your deceased mentor. 
However, even with his aid, this will without question be a 
physically-draining experience. By journey's end, you will be 
injured, bruised, and tired. But if you think of the price 
of failure, this is a small price to pay. For should you 
lose a battle, you will suffer a fate worse than death.
You see, the master does look favorably upon assassins. 
Thus, he has the power to make you immortal, and you 
will be forced to serve him for eternity in this 
most unpleasant environment. 
Even worse, you will be confined to a single room, 
becoming one of his guards...

                   ...and, that is the CAPITAL PUNISHMENT.




----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 



             What you are about to experience is a one level of
      player-against-computer playable preview of Capital Punishment.



                                   
                                   WARNING!
                                  ----------
                    THE FOLLOWING DEMO CONTAINS SCENES OF
                    EXTREMELY REALISTIC VIOLENCE AND GORE.
                  "PXL COMPUTERS" DOES NOT RECOMMEND THE USE
              OF THIS SOFTWARE FOR CHILDREN OR SENSITIVE PERSONS.




Capital Punishment is the most technically advanced and 
most playable fighting game on Amiga. It features:

- a specially developed state-of-the-art bob routine with a real-time 
  horizontal bob flip that can animate two large characters, covering 
  a combined area of over 30,000 pixels, at a rate of 25 frames per second
- a horizontal scroll of 50 frames per second with 
  acceleration and deceleration
- pixel-by-pixel drawn frames of perfectly smooth animation for every character
- dazzling backgrounds in 256 colours from a palette of 16.7 million
- a unique zone editor that has been created to maximize 
  the combat experience through an advanced collision detection system using 
  four collision zones (head, body, legs, and attack) for every character 
  in every frame
- semi-transparent 3D shadow that casts itself on the characters and 
  the floors by following the characters' movements at the rate 
  of 25 frames per second
- additional visual effects such as:
  slow-motion replay;
  realistic blood animation;
  red screen flash after every blow;
  screen shakes after a player is punched or falls;
  screen scroll with every move;



----------------------------------------------------------------------------



Controls:    joystick (or joypad) in port 2 
             or cursor keys + Alt (fire button)
             
Main menu:   move left/right to see some of the warriors that will appear 
             in the final game. Press fire at any point because only one 
             of the warriors is available for you in this demo

Game screen: Your warrior is on the left side of the screen.

Energy:  Bar at the top of the screen represents a "tug-of-war" energy level for
         both fighters. A hit by your warrior will expand your energy and 
         computer warrior's will shrink. The reverse happens if your 
         opponent hits you. 
         A warrior loses a fight when all of his energy is taken away.

Stamina: Panels with current stamina displays are located under the main 
         energy bar. The pink bar represents the head, while the blue bar 
         indicates body stamina. Your stamina is on the left, while 
         computer's on the right. In addition to robbing an opponent of 
         vital main energy, a hit will also take away his stamina 
         (head or body, depending on where the hit landed). 
         If all stamina is taken away, player falls into 
         a dangerous state of fatigue. At that point 
         the opponent can hit any way he wants to. 
         When fatigued, you can rejuvenate yourself by 
         quick tapping on the fire button. 
         The only way to get stamina back is to stand still.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------




Hints:

1. Every blow consumes a different amount of energy.
2. The amount of energy consumed by a particular blow varies with the 
   body part that is hit.
3. A blow is stronger if opponent is in the air.
4. A blow is the strongest if opponent is fatigued.
5. A block will stop energy from being taken away by a blow, but not stamina.
6. Always watch enemies stamina, since the less powerful hit in a critical 
   part of the body will sometimes do more damage, because opponent will 
   fall into a state of fatigue, allowing you to land the most powerful blow.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------




What you see in this demo is just a small part of the final version 
of Capital Punishment which will feature:

- fight against another player via modem over the telephone line
- upgrading your warrior's moves as you progress in the game
- even bigger and nastier computer-controlled characters that are not found 
  in this demo
- more characters to choose from
- special FX eerie fights with the spirit of your deceased mentor
- more action locations
- more visual FX and shadow tricks (deforming over walls, staircases, etc.)
- keyboard redefine option
- a stunning soundtrack and sound effects
- many secret things to discover for yourself


                                   WARNING!
                                  ----------
        IF YOU FIND THAT THIS DEMO HAS GOT TOO MUCH VIOLENCE AND GORE,
         PLEASE DO NOT PLAY THE FINAL VERSION OF CAPITAL PUNISHMENT, 
            AS IT WILL MAKE THIS DEMO SEEM LIKE A WALK IN THE PARK.





                                   COMMENTS?
                                   ---------
If you have any comments, suggestions, critics, or just hellos to say to us, 
we would like to hear from you. Although this is a thoroughly tested demo, 
it is still in beta stage, so if you experience any bugs or incompatibilities 
with certain hardware products, please, tell us and we will fix them.

Send Internet e-mail to:

       clkboom@io.org

For more info on Capital Punishment and "clickBOOM", 
visit the clickBOOM WWW page at:

  http://www.io.org/~clkboom/amiga/








                          AGA EXPERIENCE 2 CD-ROM
                          -----------------------

The AGA Experience Volume 2 contains over 640Mb of the best AGA, and 
Graphics card software for the Amiga, including demos, games 
and utilities etc.

For more information on The AGA Experience Volume 2 CD-ROM please contact:

SAdENESS Software,
13 Russell Terrace,
Mundesley,
Norfolk.
NR11 8LJ ENGLAND

TEL/FAX: +44 (01263) 722169

email: rich@sadeness.demon.co.uk
