                            How It All Happened
                            -------------------
One night, after waiting forever (or a real long time) for Chaos Strikes
Back to boot up on floppy, I decided that with my registration card, I 
would also send a nasty letter to FTL explaining how I really don't like
games that aren't hard drive installable. Then I decided that I would also
go on to explain that I would like to be able to multitask with this game.
I have spent enough money on 3 megs of RAM and 130 megs of hard drive.  Why
should their $30 program render my expansion useless by forcing me to run
off floppy and not be able to multitask? Well anyway...
 
I thought I had better make sure that this puppy actually isn't hard drive
installable before I write them a letter and make them mad and make them
write me a nasty letter back saying something about me being stupid and
all of that stuff.  In order to save face, I looked around on both drives
and in all of the sub-dirs for anything that said 'INSTALL' or was even
close.  No luck. I checked all of the manuals.  No luck.  I copied all of
the files from the program disk to a dir on the HD and did an 'Assign
DungeonMaster: DH1:CSB'.  It said Damaged Disk or something.  I tried a
couple of other far-flung things. Still nothing.

Then inspiration struck.  I copied everything to RAD:.  I relabeled RAD: as
DungeonMaster:.  I left the original in DF0:.  I went to RAD: and typed
the Version >nil: and BJELoad_R lines from the StartUp-Sequence and very
quickly the FTL swoop swooped.  It accessed DF0: for a little while
and stopped. I thought it STOPPED.  Then the 'Presents' and titles screens
popped up.  I was amazed.  It then again check DF0: shortly.  A while later
the Prison/Resume screen came up.  I selected Resume and it asked me to 
put the Save Game disk in DF0:.  I behaved and it loaded my game.  Then
it told me to stick the Master Disk in DF0:. It loaded the rest of the game
from RAD: and at the end checked DF0: before it said Game Loaded and Ready
to Play!  I was stunned.

I did it again and it worked again.  I had successfully installed Chaos
Strikes Back to RAD:!  I thought wow, that's great, but I still haven't put
it on the hard drive where I want it.  I could copy the file to the hard 
drive and load them to RAD: when I wanted to play.  This seemed too cheesy
to me.  It is at this point the I remembered a thing called FMS.  This would
create floppy like partitions on a HD, which would be just like RAD: 'cept
on the HD!  So I called The Cafe' BBS, which is one of the best systems in
my area, got FMS, and went to work and soon it was done!  Now I have Chaos
Strikes Back on the hard drive, and it takes a lot less time to boot, and
I am a very happy person! :-)
 
Jason Sims/Death Knight
            (Maybe I should change my alias to Deth Knight in honor
	     of this excellent game?!?)
