Introduction:

What is BSGE?

BSGE is the acronym for Battletech Strategic Game Enhancer.
Battletech is a tactical combat simulation produced by the FASA Corporation
that allows players to enact engagements between Battlemechs and other
weapons found in the year 3025. For more info about Battletech contact FASA
or your nearest gaming or comic store. The Strategic Game Enhancer is my
attempt to "realistically randomize" engagements between forces. The idea
was birthed after many hours of gaming between my friends and I. We desired
to have the computer choose our forces randomly, but be realistic according
to the Battletech Universe when it chose our opposing forces. We wanted an
"almost" equal footing, but also an unknown element. It was our desire that
this would increase the enjoyment and challenge of Battletech combat.

How does it work?

Well, simply put, BSGE asks the player how many "rolls" the player
desires to have. Rolls are basically chances at receiving a unit. It does
not guarantee a unit, or even a single unit, but an opportunity to get one.
I generated what I felt was a realistic odds table that reflected unit
availability and composition in the year 3025. Most common would be
infantry forces, then vehicles, followed by Battlemechs. Naval and
aerospace were not included in this attempt.

Next the player is asked if he/she wants a "handicap" of 0-5. A "0" means
no advantage, while "5" means a good advantage. Default is "0", so a player
can hit return to skip this entry. This option was included for novice
players or when one player wanted to be greatly outnumbered and seize
victory against overwhelming odds!

BSGE now asks if the player wants to include "variants". In Battletech,
variants are mechs or vehicles of similar design, but with different weapon
combinations or configurations not found on the "normal" version of the
mech. Variants are not guaranteed when this option is selected since they
are usually more scarce, but they are possible. BSGE includes the variants
found in the 3025 Technical Readout or 3026 Vehicle Manual. If a player does not have variant spec
sheets readily available it is recommended to avoid this option. Default is
"no" or "n".

BSGE now requests if the player wants output to the printer. If the player
answers "yes" or "y", the results are sent to the printer. This allows for
the results to be hidden from your opponent if he/she is also using BSGE.
Default sends the results to the screen.

Finally, BSGE asks if the player or another player wants to roll again.
Default is "yes". You must enter "no" or "n" to exit BSGE.

Installation:

After unarchiving the files, place them in a single directory and assign it
as "BSGE:". That should be all there is to it!

Information:

This is a very rough version of BSGE and I am planning on updating it soon. I used Blitz Basic to program it. This is my first real program, hence the lack of buttons, menus, etc.. Future improvements include GUI interface, inclusion of 3050, 3055, and 3058 materials, and voice/sound effects!  I eagerly await all questions, comments, and
suggestions for improvements. I am also looking for someone with musical talent that would love to see his/her module as the official BSGE tune for the next verion. Original artwork would also be nice! BSGE 1.0 is free and created for myself, but I hope someone out there also finds it useful. If you really
loved it and want to see it improved or expanded, please e-mail me at prophet@cew.wwia.net. 