Crunch Crumble & Chomp; Version 0.9



IMPORTANT!!! Be sure that all files in version 0.9 are used to 
replace all other files from older versions.

	Is there a violence or gore rating in effect? Not yet. This 
game is based on pure fantasy. No heads being pulled off, no 
blood or gore, just a simple scream and the word "SPLAT!" If this 
is too violent for you, then, you shouldn't be playing any 
computer games or watching television.



	Crunch Crumble Chomp is loosely based around the game Crunch 
Crumble & Chomp written in Applesoft Basic for the Apple II® 
computer, 1980.

	In this game, you control a B-type movie monster on a 
rampage through a big city, destroying everything in your path. 
The more you smash, the higher the score.

	Your monster lands in the middle of the city under the 
disguise of a huge explosion. It is soon on the loose, under your 
control on its career of mass distruction.

	At first, it will be easy. But, The local residences will 
not stand idly by watching you destroy their beloved city. They 
will start to fight back.

	An idle monster has a short attention span. If you take your 
time in deciding what the monster should do, it will start acting 
on its own. This action might not be to its best interest or 
health as idle monsters are very stupid.

	Similar to the Epox game from the Apple computer, this 
version is keyboard control. Unlike the Epox game, there is a 
huge, 320x200 sector area to roam through, lots of color, an 
updated reference map, and plenty of digital sound.

	The game is played as follows;

	A game cycle consist of moves by the monster followed by 
moves of the defenders. How many moves you can make depends on 
the monster type and difficulity level selected.

	All monsters will have some of the following controls at 
your command; This will take up part of or all of a game cycle; 
Study the commands available screen after you select your 
monster. Note, commands are case sensitive.



	Crumble, c; Your monsters can use its great strength to tear 
down all buildings in front of it. Crumble will also flatten 
anything in the way or smash helicoptors in the air.

	If you have anything in your monster's paw, it will be 
crushed with crumble.



	Descend, d; Used to land a flying monsters.



	Eat, e; Your monster will, over a period of time, get 
hungry. All of this crunching, flaming and zapping uses energy. 
If you get injured, your need for food rises more quickly.

	If your monster fails to be fed in time, it will go berserk. 
You will have a difficult time controlling it. Berserk monsters 
in this game have a habit of wandering into power lines and fires 
thus causing more injury to itself.

	To eat, your monster must have something in its paw or must 
be facing something that it can pick up and eat.

	Your monster will happily eat people, police cars, tanks and 
chopper, but, they are of such small nourishment that for a very 
hungry monsters, your best bet is to consume nuclear energy.

	Feed your monster as follows. 1. Find a nuclear power plant.  
Just follow the power lines to a lake or river. 2. Destroy one of 
the reactors with crumble. Don't walk into the boiling reactor 
core, just stand in front of it. 3. now select e for eat. The 
monster will consume the reactor core and be replenished. It will 
now be safe to walk through the rubble.

	Don't eat up all the reactors at once. You may need them 
later for food.

	The Lava Monster is a special case, It eats by walking 
through buildings. For a quick feast, crumble a nuclear power 
plant and walk into the flaming core.



	Earthquake, e; An extry heavy stomp by large monsters can 
cause buildings to collaspe.



	Flame, f; With Flame, your monster can incinerate anything 
one square in front of its head. This includes flying objects, 
nuclear reactors, and power lines.

	If buildings or rubble piles are flamed, they will stay 
burning for a random amount of time. Fires can also spread out of 
control destroying entire city blocks. unfortunately, you won't 
get any points for this. Be careful that you don't trap some 
monsters in fires as they can get burnt.



	Grab, g; Allows your monster to grap anything in front of it 
and hold it in its paw.



	Head, h-l or h-r; Turns your monster's head to aim its 
weapons. A sub menu will then ask for which direction. You then 
type in l or r. Your monster then turns its head at a 45* angle. 
With its head turned, it can blast away at anything at the angle 
of travel.

	Head can be used to aim weapons of headless monsters 45* per 
move independent of travel. This is useful for blasting 
helicoptors and tanks that are chasing them.

	Note, when a monster changes direction of travel, the head 
returns to that direction.



	Immolate, i; Immolate is usually a weapon of desperation. 
With immolate, you incinerate everything in the sector including 
the section that you are on. Therefore, some monsters will be 
injured in the process. Immolate is useful for clearing away a 
screen full of tanks and helicopters in one awsome blast.

	It takes several game cycles to recharge after its use.



	Left, l; Turns the monster 90* left



	Move, m; Moves your monster forward a square.

	Actually, the monster stays centered as the landscape 
scrolls under you. You can move your monster across roads, woods, 
and fields. Some monsters can walk through houses and small 
businesses thus flattening everything in its path. Others can 
crash through anything with ease.

	Some monsters can wade through water with no problems.



	Melt, M, m; This is similar to immolate except that your 
monster doesn't get burnt in the process.



	Plaster, p; Plaster zaps the display area with several blast 
at random. A very nasty weapon available to certain monsters such 
as the cloud and megatank. It takes several game cycles to 
recharge after its use.



	Quit, q; Quits the game. Also, when your monster is killed 
or drowns, the game ends. This will return to a menu upon game 
completion. Currently, quit just exits the game.



	Right, r; Turns the monster 90* right.



	Stomp, s; Useful for crushing things that get under your 
feet like those pesky tanks and jeeps. Stomp also allows you to 
smash those annoying helicopters that hover above you.

	An earthquake can occur when a heavy monster uses stomp.



	Sonic_Scream, S, or s; Sonic Scream will paralize everything 
after you for up to five game cycles. It also causes all 
helicoptors in sight of your monster to crash. After its use, it 
takes several game cycles to recharge weapons.

	MegaScream, S, s, M, or m; will cause buildings to collaspe 
into rubble.

	Scream, S,or s; just makes a lot of noise.



	Takeoff, t; Only good for monsters that can fly. Once 
flying, you will continue travel in the direction you are 
pointing.

	You can go along crumbling zapping and flaming everything 
along your path. You can fly over power lines and other dangerous 
objects. A flying monster will destroy most structures under its 
wings.

	Flying uses up a lot of energy, so, you will need to feed 
your monster more often.

	If a flying monster becomes injured, it will be grounded.



	Underground, u; Works for monsters that can travel 
underground. A monster will travel underground in the direction 
of travel for five map sectors. When it surfaces, a 9 section 
area in the center may be destroyed. Traveling underground uses a 
lot of energy. Your monster will get hungry in a hurry.



	Underwater, u; A water monsters can travel underwater up to 
5 sectors unless it hits the land first.

	Unlike underground, it doesn't take much energy to travel 
underwater.



	View map, v; The game map is displayed along with the mouse 
crosshair pointing to the location of your monster. You can see 
where you have trashed the city as such damage shows up in a 
darker color.



	Tidal Wave, W, w, or t; Tidel wave washes away a section of 
a shore line allowing a water monsters to move slowly inland. 
Tidal Wave only works when a monster is in the water. It takes a 
game cycle to use the tidal wave more then once.



	Zap, z; Zap is a destructive ray.that explode upon impact on 
a building or other object. If there is nothing to zap in front 
of the monster's head, zap will continue on to the next square.

	Megazap, M, m, Z or z; Megazap will cause two squares to be 
blasted in one move.



	Data display.



	Monster Name; The feature creature of the day.

	Command: The command being executed is printed.

	Direction: Which direction your monster is heading.

	Score; You get a score for everything that you demolish as 
well as for how long you have survived.

	Hunger; gives a readout of your nutritional needs (or power 
status for monsters that don't require food.)

	Health; Shows your injury status. Monsters can be injured by 
high voltage lines, boiling nuclear reactors, fires, and the 
defenders. injury and healing rate depends on the monster type 
selected. Your hunger status and injuries determine just how 
quickly you heal. A badly injured and starving monster can end up 
dying from its injuries.

	Ow! Ow!! Ow!!!; You have been hit by the Mad Scientist. The 
end will come soon.

	Head direction; The direction your monster's head is facing. 
Headed monsters have a 45* angle from direction of travel. 
Headless monsters can aim weapons in any direction. When you 
change direction, the head returns to center.

	X,Y map pointer; This is just a reference number. It will 
read from 2 to 312 and 2 to 192. If the screen displays city 
limits, you have reached the map edge. Head in another direction.

	Difficulity number. For testing purpose. The higher the 
number, the greater the chance that something will come after 
you. This number increases as game play progresses.



Resistance that you may run into.



Power lines; High voltage lines are very dangerous to some 
monsters. If your monster wanders into them they will short out 
injuring your monster in the process. Should that happen, the 
power is knocked out, for a while.

	You can flame power lines or blast them out of your way.



Fires; Most monsters will be injured if they try to crumble or 
walk through a raging fire. Fires may spread out of control 
without warning. Most fires are started by your monster or 
crashing helicopters.



People; They are defenseless and will attempt to flee the area.



Police Cars: Armed only with rifles, their sting is just annoying 
to most monsters. They make easy targets and a tasty snack.



Jeep, National Guard: Armed only with rifles. Are also easy 
targets and a tasty snack.



Tanks: Have antitank shells that can injure most monsters. Tanks 
move slowly and make easy targets. They must travel on roads and 
open areas. Can cause great injury if they attack in force. Tanks 
are quite edable.



Helicopters: Armed with antitank rockets. They are difficult to 
see near buildings and rubble. Can show up in large numbers and 
travel anywhere. They can cause great injury when attacking in 
large numbers. All of that flammable fuel can makes a very yummy 
snack.



Navy Ships: Armed with missiles and 5" shells they are quite 
dangerous. Will quickly cause severe injury. Ships move slowly 
and make easy targets. Ships are too big to be eaten.

	Ships are not in use in version 0.9.



The Mad Scientist: Most dangerous of all the defenders. Once hit, 
your monster may go berserk. (You will have a difficult time 
trying to control it.) The difficulity factor also increase to 
maxminium. Monsters that are protected from injury can now be 
injured. Your monster will be unable to defend itself properly 
from an all out assault by the military. 

	The Mad Scientist starts showing up in later stages of the 
game and usually appears flying a larger helicopter.



	Warning! what looks like one tank or helicopter may actually 
be large numbers of them. You could be in for a nasty surprise.

	When you zap, crumble, or flame a zone, you will 
automatically destroy everything that is contained in it.



Monsters available;



Gonzilla;

	Strengths, Can crumble, flame and zap. Flattens small 
buildings and houses. Can swim rivers and lakes.

	Weaknesses, High voltage electricity can cause great injury. 
So can walking into a melting nuclear core or using immoblate. 
However, it can eat this core safely for food. Gonzilla can be 
injured by the military. If hit by the Mad Scientist, it will go 
berzerk.

	Gonzilla is a good, all purpose monster with many abilities. 
Crumble and zap are its most effective powers.



The Blob;

	Strength. Can travel through structures with the greatest of 
ease. Can squeeze under power lines. Has the ability to hide 
underwater. Gets bigger as it continues eating. Will eat from 
surrounding sectors as it gets bigger.

	Weakness. Cannot destroy any structures. Easily injured, but 
can heal quickly. Must eat people it finds in the smaller 
structures or out in the open. Takes a long time to build up a 
score. If hit by the Mad Scientist, the monster will go berzerk.

	The Blob has no weapons except its sonic scream. It cannot 
crumble anything but the defenders. It is always hungry. Build up 
your score by eating everything that you can. Walk through 
buildings to drive people out into the open. Use the sonic scream 
to freeze the defenders with fear. If your monster grows large 
enough, it will start to feed itself on the surrounding 
sectors.Game ends if the Blob is killed or it grows too big to be 
displayed on screen.



Sea Monster;

	Strength. Very tough creature, Can move quickly in any 
direction. Its great strength can destroy any structure including 
bridges. Eats nuclear energy. Can hide under water. Can create a 
tidal wave to move inland. Has the megascream and superzap. Can 
travel underwater without using up energy.

	Weakness. Must remain in the water, therefore, has a limited 
range of destruction. Can't stay underwater for long. High 
voltage lines dangerous. If hit by the mad scientist, monster 
will go berserk.

	Use the tidal wave to move your monster inland. The sonic 
scream can be used to ward off helicopter attacks.



Lava Monster;

	Strength. Leaves a fire trail where ever it goes which can 
then spread everywhere. Can flame and melt entire screens without 
injury. Burns its way through all buildings. Can't be injured by 
military or fire. Can travel underground. Feeds automatically on 
burning rubble or nuclear power. Has the sonic scream.

	Weakness. Water is fatel. Will go berzerk if hit by Mad 
Scientist. It will get hungry if caught where there is nothing to 
burn.

	An interesting monster. Use fire to your advantage to 
destroy large sections of the city. Be aware that using fires 
causes your monster to get hungry. Eat nuclear power for a quick 
recharge. The Lava Monster can walk through fire and power lines 
with no ill effect. But, stay out of the water. Cross a river by 
going under it.



The Cloud;

	Strength. Floats in the air all of the time. Flys over all 
dangerous objects. Can zap, plaster, and crumble anything. Can 
fire at anything chasing it. Immune to all weapons used against 
it except for the Mad Scientist. Eats only nuclear power.

	Weakness. Difficult to keep fed. Plaster requires four clock 
cycles to recharge. Can be injured if it tries to crumble power 
lines. Once zapped by the Mad Scientist, it will be easily 
injured by any weapon used against it.

	The cloud is a most challanging monster to control as it is 
always moving. It is difficult to keep fed. Use crumble to crush 
the nuclear power plant, then turn around and feed on it.



Megatank;

	Strength. Has zap, and flame thrower. Has great strength to 
crumble buildings. Can tear down powerlines without being 
injured. Has 360 ability to attack without turning. Can plaster 
and immolate a screen without any injury. Doesn't need to be fed. 
Not affected by fires. Immune to anything the military can use 
against it. Megatank can fly. Stomp will cause an earthquake.

	Weakness. Can't swim. Immolate and plaster requires four 
clock cycles to recharge all weapons except crumble or stomp. The 
Mad Scientist will destroy the megatank's shields allowing it to 
be destroyed.

	Megatank is a futuristic doomsday machine under your 
control. you can go crashing and zapping with ease. You may also 
go flying and blasting at will. For some dumb reason, the 
creators of Megatank forgot to waterproof it, so, stay out of the 
water. As always, the Mad Scientist is to be avoided at all cost.

	Warning! Bridges will crumble under the weight of megatank 
dumping it into the water.



City to trash with your monster



	DETROIT

	A 320x200 area to roam. Includes the Detroit River, The City 
of Detroit, Wyandotte, River Rouge, Grosse Point, Winsor, 
Dearborn, and outlying suburbs. Map features blighted and 
abandoned areas of Detroit, and River Rouge.



Difficulity level.

	1. Easy; This is the beta test mode.

	2. Average. This is the normal mode. The difficulity level 
advances at twice normal rate.

	3. Harder then H---. The difficulity level advances at three 
times the normal rate.

	If you get hit by the Mad Scientist, the difficulity level 
is increased further by a factor of 10.



	CCC is written in AMOS Professional and should run on any 
Amiga with 1 meg ram. 



	History

	Version 0.1 Beta copy using 100x100 array for data. Requires 
a map editor program.

	Version 0.2 Updated to use iff Lo-Res EHB picture for map 
data. Map now has more then 6 times the roaming area available. 
Long load time for city map now eliminated. Updated Map display 
added. Version 0.2 appears in Fresh Fish CD, issue 8.

	Version 0,3 Program slightly smaller and faster due to 
simpler map variable calculations

	Version 0.5 Flame direction now tied into head direction. 
Code now allows for several monster types. Better sound samples. 
Better looking Gonzilla. Dramatic entrance for monster. Monster 
can now tear down or walk through power lines knocking out the 
power for a while, (Will be burnt in the process.) Code cleaned 
up. Added monster data files to customise program for monster 
types. Fixed a couple of nasty bugs and other non working things.

	Version 0.6 Fixed overshoot bug when flying. Added some 
monster types to test. More code cleanup to speed things up.

	Version 0.7 New weapon types tested. More code cleanup.

	Added info screens and choice of four monsters. 

	Version 0.8 Difficulity level added. Sonic Scream, 
earthquake, and Underground available.

	Version 0.9 Add data file support for monster that 
eliminates 1k of program code and allows for customizing commands 
for each monster. Rearranged some code to speed up other items.

	Example, m moves a land monsters but is used as a megascream 
for cloud monster. The letter doesn't determine the command name, 
but is used to select the command name. The command name becomes 
the actual program gosub command thanks to AmosPro supporting the 
use of a gosub to a variable name in which that name has been 
placed in an array. I. E. Gosub Command$(x) is a valid program 
code. New monsters tested, Octipus sea monster and the Blob which 
grows as the game is played. 16 levels of Blob growth to full 
screen added.

	Fixed display for flying and walking. No more flickering 
display problem. Fixed a nasty bug that froze the program if 
underground was the first command.

	Added megascream, grab, tidal wave, melting, megazap as new 
weapons. Monster can now carry its victiums around before eating 
or crushing them.

	Intro display now supports instructions and brief 
discriptions, all updatable from the data files.



	You should be able to reach a score of 20,000 before it 
becomes impossible to fight off the resistance. That is, if the 
Mad Scientist doesn't get you first.



	Technical Information

	Graphics; edited from Aegis Artpack and created using D- 
Paint AGA

	Sounds; Edited from various PD sources.

	Map; Created with D-Paint AGA using EHB mode. Each color 
number corresponds to a graphic object used to create the map 
display in the game. This results in a huge map that loads 
quickly, is easily edited, and is memory efficient. The updated 
map can be used in the game as a visual reference of the game 
progress.

	Graphic display; Crunch Crumble Chomp uses a double buffered 
display with the actual map created on a virtual screen using the 
EHB map as the reference and then cut and pasted to the display 
screen. This makes possible the smooth scrolling of a 200x200 
section in the game display.

	Programming has been done in modules to allow for testing 
and updating each new feature.



	Other improvements planned for shareware version 1.x;

	More monster types, Also, customize your own monster.

	Animation of monster movement. Also, animation of movement 
of people and other objects.

	Choice of cities to destroy. Blast away Tokyo or smash the 
liberal paradise of Washington D.C.

	Save game high score. Compare your score to monster type.

	City map editor. Instructions on how to Use D-Paint to 
Create your own custom city to wreak havoc on.

	Monster Editor. Create your own special monster to test on a 
city.

	Custom sound samples for each monster type.



Remember, it is only a Sci-Fi Movie monster. Enjoy.

