This is it.  A labor of love.  I knew back when I read that the Amiga
had Raw keys that it was possible.  I spent 6 months on this sucker.  I
decided to release it shareware.  If I get a good response, I'll release my
next one the same way.  If I don't I'll have to go commercial.  This is in
answer to all those folks who say, no copyprotection (it isn't and won't
be), cheap (10 bucks!), and fun (we spent a lot of time "playtesting" this
one!).
   This demo doesn't include the orange ship collision routine.  The orange
ship also only has 10 shots.  You will be able to see how fast it is, play
with the options (more on that later) and decide if you want it before you
buy it.  I hope you like it, since I'm just a college student scraping by
who'd like to turn out some neat things for this machine if I get enough
support.

Functions:
F1= Setup Mode (freezes game, activates checking for F1-F10)
F2= Vary Gravity Strength
F3= Gravity On/Off
F4= Inertia
F6= Long/Short Shot life
F7= Infinite Shots/Limited Shots
F10= Reset all conditions to default at next restart.
Controls:
I'm working on having these user definable.  They may be by the time you see
this but a good friend of mine said, "I'm tired of waiting, get it out so I
can tell folks about it without giving away the idea."  Faced with being
strangled I put it out less than "perfect."  Then again, everytime I reach
one point of perfection I see a new hilltop!

       Blue Ship                  Orange Ship

  (A)      (S)     (D)       (1)        (2)       (3)    keys
 Left    Thrust   Right      Left      Thrust    Right   effect
     (Space)                        (Return)             key
       Fire                          Fire                effect

First Person to 10 kills is Space Ace!

If your interested in a fully working version...

The cost of SpaceAce is $10.  If you want the Sound Update (when finished)
include another $3 (total $13).  I'll also expect a letter that says,
"I give you my word I won't give copies of Space Ace to anyone else."  I can
and will turn down payments without the letter.  It may seem hokey but I'll
trust you with an uncopyprotected copy of my program if you'll just give me
your word you won't give it away to others.

I'm open to suggestions and ideas, even code fragments (I appreciate all the
help on sound that I can get!).

These are the things not in this version that are planned soon.

More realistic Gravity. (in progress as I type from my math friends).
Reverse Gravity.
Continous Bumming of code to get that little bit of extra speed.

In progress but I don't know how long it will take (could be tomorrow,
probably during summer).

Sound!  Thrusting, Firing, Explosions!  I want this real bad, but I always
go by my prioritys and sound had to wait until after I had a working
version.  Well, there you have it.  If you would like to put a bug in my ear
about a favorite program you'd like to see, I'm open.

Well, I better get to bed.  It's late and I have to get up early tomorrow.

(grin).  Guess I'm tired.  Almost forgot the address!

Stephen McLeod
Houston, Texas
9707 Richmond 77042

later
