STEP FIVE FREEWARE - LAST RELEASE AUGUST 2007
---------------------------------------------

INTRODUCTION:
------------

This  is  the  last release of Step Five, who become freeware. This release
has been improved and debugged during the summer 2007 ;)

This  game  work  with  PAL,  with  AGA, from a floppy disk or from an hard
drive.

We  hope  that  this  ultimate  release  will be liked by a lots of poeple.
Besides, we wait after your comments ;)


NOSTALGIA:
----------

The  members  of  the group who participated on the development of the game
are all used an amiga, from the A500 1.2 and during some years.

After having made some demos and others projects, the Step Five project has
been  decided  in  1993-1994. In fact, we would like to try an other thing.
Step Five has needed from us lots of work.

More  than  discovering the unknown, for us, posibilities of the A1200, the
available free time for each members was not regular. It wasn't been simple
to found them together (no internet, mails, FTP,...).

Each  coders  tried to make some coding with the use of the A1200 features.
The  graphician try to show each week-end a work a little more advanced. As
soon as possible, we merged together the results of the member's work.

We  met  us  in  the  house  of one of the members, each show to the others
members  the  result of his work (gfx, soudtrack, coding) and new ideas has
been developped during the meeting, for the development and the improvement
of the game.

During  the  development  time,  the  game evolved and, after a numerous of
tries,  we have been verry proud to, at least, use the first complete final
version.

The testing periods wasn't easy. We must found a progressive difficulty but
allways playable, for keeping the main spirit of the game.

We  hope  that this last release will be liked by all who like this kind of
game and the Amiga :)



We  haven't  receive  enough  registering  (a  few) and It was sad, because
during  this  period, we were motivated to do other things. (The main coder
of Step Five even has started to do a breakout game 'Reflect-it').

Registering  was  just a sign of interest, we not think to do lots of money
with  the  game, but showing an interest by registering to Step Five should
maybe  push  the  team  to  do others games for the amiga. We would like to
thanks a lot the few registered users of Step Five.

Now, with internet, sure the reactions and registering will now be more (we
hope  so  ;)  and  with  more  speed than sending a mail by post with money
inside.

The  period  that we have made the Step Five game has been verry attractive
and  interesting.  It was for us a learming period, discovering and working
on a team.

We  have  even trying to contact some of the amiga companies of the period,
during  August 1994, and have received negative answers for Step Five, from
Core  Or  Gremlins and some others. Even Negative, the received answers has
been for us verry positive ;) Eric must do have some ...

 
The  simple  life  simply  catched  us,  some of the members now use others
things (mac or PC, Sony game players,....)

BTW,  the  amiga period is allways present for the members of the team, for
the amiga computer and for all the unforgettable memory.

The graphist is allways on amiga (mrod) and he is the last who use each day
his amiga. (1200+DBOX tower+mediator+voodoo3+1260/50).

The  main  coder  of  Step Five now use a mac on where he has made 2 demos.
Now,  he  came  back  to  his first computers love: Amstrad, Msx and Amiga.
Sometime,  It's allways possible that some members has a meeting and recall
some great memories.

For us, the Amiga, on our heart ?
For us, yes ;)

We wish to you a great fun with Step Five, made by:

Eric Mendel (coding) - eric.mendel@free.fr
Jackie Bollier (coding)
Philippe Bovier (Graphist) - mrodfr@gmail.com
Olivier Delemotte (Mad tester)
Patrice Krysztofiak (musician and coder of the Phelios group)


You can found some of our releases of this site, in french:

http://ericmcolleco.free.fr/menu-laprogetmoi.html


THE GAME:
--------

The  objet  of  this game is to pack pieces with differents form in a small
window. You lost when you have no place to put down the current piece.


This Game have different options available during playing. This options are
validated  by  making  lines with all the pieces falling in the area of the
game. These options are:

- 1 Lines : Nothing.

- 2 Lines : NAME : Press Down.

            A small boxe appared with a red cross inside allow you to
            fill a hole in a vertical colum. With chance, you can have
            some boxe one after an other to significally decrease the
            high of all the pieces. 

- 3 Lines : NAME : Swap Piece.

            When making 3 lines, you have the possibility to choose the
            next piece to play. A little burn wick show the time you
            have. If you have choosen the right piece before all the
            time pass, you can press the Joystick Left direction to
            continue to play.

- 4 Lines : NAME : Long insertion.   

            With this option, you have the posibility to insert more than
            one square.

- 5 Lines : Bonus points.

Others options during the game are:
-----------------------------------

- Sometimes the window showing the next piece was closed. ( If you are very
  good) until the next Level.

- Sometines, the control of the piece is disturb ( Surprised ! ).

- Pause : P.

- Continue : P.

- Quit : ESC.

History:
-------

- V1.0 : First release 08/94.

- V1.1 : Only change is the limited time to play with the game.

Totally  stopped  developping  the  game because of Commodore and almost no
replay for Registering, suggestion or encouragement.

- V1.2 : Internal releases 08/95 untill 12/95 with lots of bugs found
    |  : and improvements in the source. This new version exist ONLY 
- V1.29: with ESCOM and NOT with the user's support..

- V1.30: Second release 01/96.

