

	
WHAT'S ALL THIS ABOUT ?
-----------------------


	This archive contains two save-game files for Hero Quest II (Legacy of
Sorasil) by Gremlin,1994.These files provide sufficent power-up for your heroes
that will last for a good while.


REQUIREMENTS:
-------------


	*HD installed game
	*ECSLaunch by Alastair M. Robinson, or
	*Killaga by Jolyon Ralph,

	in the game directory or somewhere on your path,if you play the game on
	A1200.
	ECSLaunch works better in this case !

	Both degraders are Freeware and therefore included in this archive,just
	in case you don't have them and save you some time to hunt for them !



HOW YOU DO IT:
--------------


	Copy the icon "LegacyOfSorasil" to your game directory from where you
unpacked this archive.You must rename your existing icon first!.

	Copy ECSLaunch and Killaga to somewhere in your path (e.g C:) or to the
game directory - if you are using an A1200 (especially with a multisync monitor)

	Start the game and click through screens until you come to the Main
Option Screen (The one with four rectangular icons arranged like a cross !)
Click the Character Selection box (the one with a question mark).Choose the
first available character in each box.That is to say, Angor,Ravenslock,Grimbeard
and Stormbow.Exit this screen by clicking the down-arrow and you are back to the
Main Option Screen.Now you don't need to go into the Character Modification
Screen but just click the box on the lower middle (with a disk image) the Load-
Save Screen.Click "SAVE" and then choose the first slot and click "EXIT".

	Reboot your Amiga.Back to the good old Workbench !

	Your saved game file appears in the Sorasil directory with the name of
"FrogAndParrot" (4976 bytes).Now you need to replace this file with one of the 
two save files I provided in this archive.The one with ".med" extension gives
medium power-up attributes for all your heroes,while the one with ".max"extension
pushes their abilities to the maximum.You may try the game with the maximum power-
up first !...Now,rename or delete the file "FrogAndParrot" in the game drawer.
Copy one of the boost files (e.g. FrogAndParrot.max) to the Sorasil drawer.Rename
the file and take away the ".max" extension.By doing this you have now replaced
your weak start group with a very strong one!...

	Start the game,go to the Main Options Screen and Load your saved game.
You now have a super company to kick some ass !...

	
HINT:
-----

	If you would like to use this cheat to quickly play through the game and
 if you know how to hex-edit files there is a very neat way how to do it ! :

	* Choose only one hero at the Character Selection Screen (instead of four)
	  It doesn't matter which character you choose,probably the best with the
	  sexy Celeste !...
	* Hex edit the save-game file  and boost-up your one and only character.
	  Now you don't have to play the other three chaps' turns and you got what
	  you want about three times faster!...Why do we play computer games any-
	  way....?:

	  TO WIN SOME TIME OR TO KILL SOME ?...




	Please mail your comments ands questions to:

	
	
	temellum@email.com



	19990423
	Bug‹n 23 Nisan
	Neshe doluyor insan

	By General "Topal" Osman


	AMIGA IS ALIVE AND KICKING !


	WHAT ?...