Administering an Expert server during a match
---------------------------------------------

This is just a quick guide to help match admins avoid some of
the pitfalls of administering Expert servers during matches.
For full documentation of the server, read "expert.txt".

RCON
----
"rcon" means remote console.  rcon is a very simple mechanism
that just allows you to send commands to the console of the
server you are connected to.

You set your rcon_password like so:

rcon_password foobar

and you send commands to the server like so:

rcon [command]

[command] will be executed on the server console.

Changing maps
-------------
Always use the gamemap command to change maps, for example:

gamemap q2ctf1

In general, don't use the "map" command to change maps.  The 
"map" command essentially causes the server to restart, and
although players will remain connected, a lot of important 
state information will be lost, such as which players are 
on what team.

There is a situation in which you will need to use the "map"
command to change maps.  Certain settings, such as 
"maxclients", are "locked" so that they cannot be changed 
without subsequently using the "map" command to change maps.
You can tell when you are dealing with a "locked" settings
because, when you try to change the setting, the server
will respond:

"[setting] will be changed for next game"

for example

"maxclients will be changed for next game"

At this point the server has remembered the setting you are
attempting to set, but it won't actually take effect until 
you change maps using the "map" command.

If you attempt to change maps with the name of a map that
doesn't exist, YOU WILL CRASH THE SERVER.  Therefore, always
carefully check any map-changing command after you type it in.

Note: the server crash thing is a problem with Quake2, not
Expert.  Unfortunately it can't realisticly be worked around.



Changing settings
-----------------

Some settings don't actually take effect or will not function
correctly until you change maps after turning the setting on
or off.  For example, Alternate Restore.  If Alternate Restore 
is not enabled and you enable it, there will still be health 
in the level.  If it is enabled and you disable it, health
won't suddenly appear.

To be safe, change maps immediately after changing settings.

WATCH OUT for the level scripting system.  Every time the
level changes automatically (fraglimit, timelimit or 
capturelimit hit), the server may have executed a .cfg file
as part of the functioning of the level scripting system.
So every time the level changes automatically, check that
the settings important to the match have not been affected.
If they have, change them back and change levels.

