It has only been three weeks since you returned from your previous
mission, ostensibly gaining information to pass onto the Council of the New
World Order.  The reality would live with you for years to come being
re-ignited each night in your dreams, but you had a feeling that once the
Council had received your report they would suddenly decide that there were
missions for one who had survived the obsessive cultists and their servants.

  Ordinarily there was a break of about six months between each mission,
time to recover and recuperate but now you find yourself standing outside the
same door that you stood in front of just a few weeks ago, you hope the
circumstances of your subsequent mission will be considerably less
dangerous...though secretly you know that they won't be.

Once inside, you see the seven old men dressed in grey and hidden in the
cavernous expanses of their own dark thrones, one presses a single button
and the spotlight falls onto you and they begin speaking. 

"We are pleased that you successfully completed your mission" one remarked.
"As was I" you reply

"It is...unfortunate that we must recall you to our service so quickly, but
a problem has appeared and it must be solved with the utmost alacrity and we
know of only one man who can act with such celerity...you." 

the sentence ended and there was complete silence, then a different man
spoke from just to your right hand side.

"Do you accept?"

The question is irrelevant as it would mean certain death if you did refuse,
so you choose life, this time at least.

"Yes, I accept.  What is the mission?"

"As you are no doubt aware we have several planets in the Beta Quadrant set
aside for  military testing and research on weapons, chemicals and the like."

"Indeed" you reply interested suddenly despite yourself, there are many
rumours about the Beta Quadrant and few facts.

"You must go to the planet Splinn and investigate a situation that has
developed there"

"A situation?"

"A number of subjects at the plant were accidentally exposed to a form of
biological  anti-personnel weapon that we were developing to aid our efforts
against our enemies on the outer ring of the empire.  This biological substance
causes a process of transformation over time resulting in the death and
subsequent reanimation of mammalian tissue.  In short it kills, as it
was supposed to, but then restores the dead to life...after a fashion.

These creatures crave living human flesh and many of them lose the ability
to recall any of their human skills within days of their death.  Initially
this would not have been a problem, the security forces on the planet
captured them and the scientists began their experiments anew on
these zombified corpses."

"So why do you need me?" you interrupt with growing trepidation.

"We believe that the enemy from the outer planets some how sabotaged the
containment fields and compromised the security measures, exposing all in
the base to the biological agent.

It is your mission to enter the base, eliminate all non human life forms
that you encounter and secure all 50 decks, once this has been accomplished
you must leave a tactical thermo-nuclear device in the deepest level where the
reactors are located and then after you are aboard a ship detonate the device
from orbit.  This will make sure that there is no chance of the infection
moving to colonies in nearby systems.

We will see you in one week after the completion of your mission, good luck."

With that the light shuts off and the door opens behind you, you never
saw their faces and so you don't know if they think you will return but
you vow you will.....



For the full 'Talkie' version of this intro see the CD-ROM

                                       
