
ACS guide to.....


CAPTIVE


	This is another of those games that kept me up late at 
night for a very long time.  If you like DM games then this 
is a must play.  I still get most letters asking for the 
first lot of maps for mission one and two and to include 
them on the ACS Disks.  Unfortunately I no longer have them 
but if anyone out there can supply me with some, great, send 
them in with all details now, hurry.  Meanwhile here we go 
with some hints, answers etc. To get started on the first 
level base....

	You have to fly your spaceship, the swan, to the planet 
BUTRE, ( co-ordinates 008w-072n ).  While you are on the way 
place the chips in the droids head.  You now have to assign 
them a name.  The chip is in the backpack of each droid. 
Once this is done you will aquire the ability to punch, 
which is the first means, for the time being, of attacking.  
Once you are orbiting, zoom in on the white dot and click on 
it. Your craft will land.  Wander around till you find the 
green door.  A message from Ratt is at the door with a code 
on it.  This will let you in once you correctly execute it.  
Once inside pick up the explosives and another message. Go 
to the end of the passage and click the right mouse button 
on the forward icon.  The wall will move forward, most 
likely you will encounter your first base aliens. You must 
explore the whole base by open every cupboard and door. I've 
included a map on this disk to help you find your way.  Pick 
up all sacks of gold whenever you destroy an enemy. As you 
gain experience trade-em on attributes.  Before you can get 
out of the base you have to do two things. Find the 
professor and kill him for the password for the computer so 
as you can get the planet probe ( from the computer ).  Then 
you must find the generators and destroy them by throwing 
the explosives in the top of them.  Once this is done you 
must exit from the base before it blows up.  When you are 
back in orbit place the planet probe in the map and it will 
head of to the next planet showing you the way. 

During your quest you will use some plug in devices. He is a 
run down on what they are..
	
OPTICS
Basic: An AG Scan which displays how much damage you are 
inflicting on your opponent during combat.
II: This is the route finder.  Essential for finding your 
way out of the base after you have destroyed the generators. 
 It will also guide you to the base entrance when you land.
III: The mapper gives you a map of the area you have 
covered.  Shops are shown in red, white ladders and holes in 
green, doors in yellow.
IV: Radar.
V: Magna scan guides you straight to the generators.
VI: Body scan gives you a quick referance to your condition 
of your droids.
VII:The Vision corrector allows you to see where false walls 
are.
SUPER: Visor is a in-fra red night vision enables you to see 
in the dark.

	DEV-SCAPES
BASIC: Anti-Grav device enables you to walk on ceilings. 
Handy for flooded areas and shooting high  floating enemies.
II: Shield, cuts down the amount of damage done to you by 
enemies.
III: Fire shield cuts down the amount of damage fireballs do 
to you.
IV: Greaser allows you to run faster.
V: Power sapper drains all the power from your droids. 
Forget this one.
VI: Fixer will fix any part of your droids that are on 0%. 
Will not give you a full repair.
VII: Recharger reharges the droids.
SUPER: Deflector will deflect any enemy fire, however they 
drain very quickly and are expensive.

PLANETS    CODES
Butre:     CHAESELUME.
           Combination  TR,BR,TL,BL.
Pelphi:    RUPPESICBERY.
           Combination  BR,BL,TL,TR.
Meestre:   PHYDERLAPS, EXSOMIDED, scoofar,                   
ruppekal,  eginham.
           Combination  TL,TR,BL,BR.
Triekos:   ELSISYDON, RATSICPOCY, pocinsbee,                 
           elders, yulthaape, viginink.
           Combination  TR,BR,BL,TL.
Salstee:   SYTHALEBEE, MIDINSNEING, lapcepy,                 
phydered, exsosy.
           Combination  TR,BR,BL,TL.
Seavy:     YULESDEAPE, POCCEPLAPS, epeton,                   
           sylekal, rupsoham.
           Combination  BR,TL,BL,TR.
Sodpia:    EXTHAFAR, SCOSINSINK, vipeape,                    
           pocgininkal, yulooham, ratsics,                   
           chasbee, elsidon.
           Combination  TR,BL,TL,BR.
Quoonel:   QUESOSIFAR, LAPLELEBEE, syinsink,                 
           lapdering, yulenebery, midesdon,
           physiy, queltes, exneed.   
           Combination  TR,BR,TL,BL.
Phuphet:   VISICEXTON, CHAENEDEAPE, sythafar,                
           midinsham, rupneton. 
           Combination BL,TR,BR,TL.
Budod:     EINSTHASY, RUPGINENEHAM, yulcepton,               
           chaleape, elsicbee, pocpefar,
           deesdon, ratinsink, visokal.
           Combination TR,BR,BL,TL. 
                                                             
  
The passwords in capital letters are the codes for the 
computers to obtain the planet probes. The combination 
definitions are TR= top right, BR= bottom right, BL= bottom 
left and TL= top left.

Before we leave, here are the combinations for mission two 
bases.
Masgot:    TR,BL,TL,BR.
Traphet:   TL,BL,TR,BR.
Phoopel:   TL,TR,BL,BR.
Sodcket:   BL,BR,TL,TR.
Zaitet:    TL,BR,TR,BL.
Quelosod:  TL,TR,BL,BR.
Saldet:    BL,TL,TR,BR.
Mieusia:   TL,BL,TR,BR.
Pasdet:    TL,TR,BL,BR.
Leatod:    BR,TR,TL,BL.

If you have anything more to add, write in, catch ya 
then......

GAZA


