                 Dungeon Walker Demo --- by Alan Mackey
                           September 1993
                   AGA MACHINES (A1200, A4000) ONLY!!

   This program is a test of some routines I have written for an
AGA-only dungeon game.  It is not a completed game by any means, but
does look rather cool.  All programming was done in F-Basic 5.0 by
Delphi Noetic Systems, inc., but in the interest of faster operation
I am using OS calls instead of the somewhat weak F-basic commands for
almost all of the graphic and sound routines.

   When you first run this program, you will see all the graphics
being loaded into memory.  Try to ignore this, it won't do that in
the final game.  The most noticable bug in this demo is that when you
first start playing, sometimes the screen will go black.  To fix
this, just grab the titlebar and drag it down and back up again. 
This causes your Amiga to rethink its copper-lists, and color is
restored.

CONTROLS:
  UP ARROW -- walk forwards
  DOWN ARROW -- walk backwards
  LEFT/RIGHT ARROW -- sidestep left/right without turning
  Del -- turn left
  Help -- turn right
  F10/Return -- speaker selection
  [ -- decreace light by 1
  ] -- increace light by 1
  { -- decreace light by 30
  } -- increace light by 30
  SHIFT 2 -- Extra wall colors on/off
  Q -- quit

SPEAKER SELECTION:
   The first thing you should do is see which way your speakers are
hooked up, because stereo plays an important role.  Press F10 to hear
a drip on the right speaker.  If you hear it on the left, press
Return to swap speakers, and F10 again to test.  The reason there is
a need for this is because the Amigas built before OS2.0 came out had
channels 1+4 on the left and 2+3 on the right, and then after 2.0,
they switched.  Some people (like me) keep their 2.0+ amigas wired
the wrong way just to be able to use old programs and not get
confused.

LIGHT:
   In this demo version, you can control how burnt-out your torch
is.  There are 255 levels of light intensity, so changing it by 1
hardly makes a difference.

EXTRA COLORS:
   Usually walls and floors are only 16 colors.  Press SHIFT 2 to see
the extra colors (191 total) but this also slows operation.  SHIFT 1
would have controlled extra floor colors but this feature still has
several bugs.

UG:
   If, while wandering, you hear a dull, stomping throb, try to find
your way to it and see Ug.  Ug is a very well animated and real-time
scaled dungeon monster.  He is, of course, harmless in this demo
version, because of the lack of hit-points, but he makes a fun sound
if he bumps into you, or you bump into him.
   Ug's starting position and movments are random.  The world record
for finding Ug is about two seconds, set by me, when, by chance, he
started a few squares to my right.

THE MAP:
   In the window on the right, a map will be automatically drawn of
the dungeon as you explore.  The whole map is huge, and was created
by a seperate mapping program.

ABOUT THE GAME:
   The game, if and when it gets finished, will be a role-playing
game with a comic twist.  If there are any features you would like to
see, any monsters you would like to meet in a dungeon, or (better
yet) any monsters you WOULDN'T like to meet in a dungeon,  or just
want to tell me what you think of it, write:

Via Internet/bitnet:

       MACKEY@ENIGMA.RIDER.EDU
    or MACKEY@RIDER.BITNET
    (account expires June 1996)

or, if you have to, mail a letter to:

      Alan Mackey
      PO BOX 475
      Wayne, PA  19087
         USA

Thanks must go to:
  Ed Mackey for helping me kill bugs
  Eric Parkin, Sue Rankin, Ched Wheeler, and Larry Jex for their
    ever-helpful insights
  The bass drum in "Space Cowboy", which has slowed down to make the
    sound of Ug's footsteps.
  Teijo Kinnunen for Octamed 4.0 Pro, in which I sampled and/or
    modified all the sounds for this game.  (Only a few sounds in
    this demo, but there will be lots more in the finished game,
    maybe some music, too...)

More legal stuff:
   This program is Freeware...  that means you can keep it, copy it,
spread it, upload it, or whatever as long as all files are kept
exactly the way you found them.
   Did you know that I had to register this program with Delphi
Noetic Systems before distribution?  And that if it was shareware,
and I asked for money, I'd have to send them 10 bucks?  Keeripes!
