          WARHAMMER 40,000 Rule Updates (from the New Battle Manual)

              Condensed version from the GW WH40K Battle Manual.
                   Written by Bolsh Orc Cleaver of the BUST

        Many students of the WH40 playing system will discover that, because
the game is 1st edition, there are many loopholes and mistakes in the original
version. The new WH40 Battle Manual deals with new weapons rules, Hand to Hand
combat and some much needed rules changes to Line of sight etc. These rules can
be modified by any GM to suit their particular game, however, because of the
new Targeting system used on vehicles, it is best to keep to these new rules.

        The major changes that have taken place are in the Close Combat or Hand
to Hand combat section (known as H-H or C/C from now on in this text). The
previous rules were ripped straight from the Warhammer Fantasy Battle system,
and failed miserably to work on the WH40 game board, making for messy combats
and many hours of long range bombardments from all sides playing.

        The actual weapons themselves have been modified, and some have been
changed quite extensively to add more spice to the battle. The more exotic
weapons such as D Cannon have been taken from general issue and are now limited
to Eldar as Support Weaponry. If players wish to have weapons not easily
available to their race, the GM should allow a dice to decide whether their
armoury has 1 in store. This limits the choice of the Players, but does make
for a more tactical game.

        The Terminology has also been changed. Weapons are no longer associated
with the words Slow or Following fire. These have been changed to : Move or
Fire and Sustained fire, mainly, in my opinion, to allow the kids an easier
understanding of how the game works. O.K. Here Goes :

        Weapons : This section describes and provides Rules for the many
different weapons available to the Warriors of the 41st Millennium. As well as
a general description, each entry also includes any specialist rules for the
weapon, summarising any effects by means of a Weapons Profile.

                              The Weapons Profile

   Short        Long      To Hit     To Hit    S    D   Save     Special
   Range        Range     Short      Long              Modifier

   0-12         12-24      +1                  4    1    -1

Short Range : The Short Range of the Weapon, i.e. : 0-12"

Long Range : The Long Range of the Weapon, i.e.: 12-24"

To Hit Short and Long : The To Hit modifiers for any Short or Long Shots.

S : The Strength of the shot that hits the target

D : The amount of Damage or Wounds that any 1 shot will do to a target

Save Modifier : The saving Throw Modifier applied to the Targets Saving Throw.

Special : This column will give any special rules to do with the firing of the
weapon. This section may contain any 1 of the following :

Close Combat : Only weapons listed in this way may be used in C/C


Heavy n" Penalty : The word Heavy followed by a number in inches indicates
that, when carried, the weapon is either heavy or bulky, and the model suffers
a Movement penalty in inches equal to those stated for this weapon. It only
applies to Troops on foot, not to vehicles, dreadnoughts nor vehicle mounted
troops.

Move or Fire : The weapon may either be Moved in the movement round or Fired in
the Firing round, not both in the same Turn. If the model moves it cannot fire,
and if the weapon is to be fired it cannot move. This does not apply to
Dreadnoughts, vehicles or vehicle mounted troops.

Sustained Fire : The weapon is capable of shooting more than once in the turn,
as described under the Sustained Fire rules.

Area n" Radius : This indicates that the weapon is an area effect weapon, as
described in the shooting rules. The weapon uses a Burst Template with a radius
equal to the number of inches shown.

See Above : Many weapons will have specialised rules written in their
description which are impossible to summarise.


                                 Weapon Types

The various Weapons are divided into 6 types : H-H ; Pistols ; Basic Weapons ;
Heavy Weapons ; Support Weapons and Grenade Weapons.

H-H : These are designed for specific purpose of destroying opponents in C/C.
These are specially designed for use in the H-H segment and cannot be used at
any other time.

Pistols : Can be used at C/C but also at distance. To Hit modifiers are ignored
if used in H-H, as in the original rulebook. They can be fired at troops in the
shooting phase which are not already engaged in H-H combat, or by troops in the
H-H combat phase who are engaged in C/C with an enemy.

Basic Weapons : These can be used in the Shooting Phase, although the addition
of a blade or accessory allows them to be for chopping and slashing in the H-H
combat phase. Basic Weapons are designed to be fired 2 handed.

Heavy Weapons : These are extra Powerful or extra Ranged weapons, normally used
for supporting troops.  They tend to be large and heavy, and therefore are less
mobile than normal weapons. Marines can carry these with Powered Armour without
the requirement of suspensors.

Support Weapons : These are so large they cannot be carried, but must be
wheeled or moved by anti -grav or similar transportation.

Grenades : These are small bombs or grenades that are thrown by hand. Many
grenades in the 41st Millennium are small, many coin sized or marble sized.

To list all the weapons available at this time period would be futile, due to
the vast variety of weapons, so we've concentrated on the main forms of
weaponry which are used upon the battlefield. Very Heavy weapons are not
listed, as these are just too big for a successful Table Top battle, and they
remain unchanged from the WH40 Manual.

                                Support Weapons
Some support weapons incorporate their own mobile platforms (such as the Thudd
Gun and the Eldar D Cannon). All others require some sort of transport,
allowing it to be moved successfully. Various forms of this exist, as in the
Imperial Tarantula and the Eldar anti- Grav Platform, however, it is taken as
standard that any vehicle except a Bike or Trike is capable of towing a support
vehicle by means of a towing hook. A support weapon is said to be towed if it
is moved within 1" of the towing vehicle in the movement phase. The crew can
either travel with the weapon or on the towing vehicle.

                                   Shooting
Each model may shoot 1 weapon (Harlequins are an exception to this) or throw 1
grenade in the shooting phase. A model may shoot only once unless their weapon
has sustained fire. The rules given here apply to most weapons in most
circumstances.

        Facing : Models have a 90 degree fire arc to their front. This makes it
impossible for them to target anything outside this. If a target is 'on the
line', they can be targeted on a d6 roll of 4+.

        Line of Sight : Models must be able to see the enemy to target them.
This is called Line of Sight. It is impossible for a model to target an enemy
if a mountain lies between them. It is usually evident whether a model has Line
of sight, dependent upon terrain and other table top features such as
buildings. If there is any doubt, the GM should make a decision.
        A model is allowed to shoot at anything it can theoretically see upto
the maximum range of its weapon. However, there are exceptions to this rule
which will be explained below - remember, a real trooper, unlike our models,
would be able to crouch behind cover, stoop, move through folds in the ground
etc. in all sorts of way that are not represented on the tabletop.

        Low Obstacles : These can be hedges, walls, thorny shrub, scrub or
rock. These are important table top features because it allows troops to take
cover and to block Line of sight. Low obstacles of this nature block line of
sight over LEVEL ground. Models which are positioned higher can draw LOS to
enemies using this cover, and vice- versa. Even if models can see each other,
if there is a linear object between them, LOS is blocked, as troopers would
crawl, stoop, hide etc. in a real battle situation.

        Shooting from Cover : Models positioned DIRECTLY behind cover and
obstacles may fire over or through this cover so long as it is stated that they
are doing so. They cannot fire if they do not declare their intentions. If they
fire, they can be targeted in the next round, if they don't, LOS is blocked as
normal.

        Woodland : Interposing woodland blocks LOS. A model inside a wood can
see out if they are within 2" of the edge. Troops can see into woods 2". Troops
within a wood can fire normally if they are within 2" of the edge, however,
they can also be targeted from the outside.

        Obstructing Models : Other models which lie between a trooper and an
enemy will block LOS, if they are both on Level Ground. Large vehicles and
dreadnoughts can target over a trooper, as can troopers on higher ground than
the intersecting model.

        Cover : Any obstruction or linear obstacles, ditch, crater, wood etc.
can provide cover. Cover modifies To Hit dice due to the protection it gives a
model. It is divided into 2 parts - Hard and Soft cover. Hard cover comprises
of walls, rubble, buildings etc. which not only partially obscure a model but
also offer it some real protection. Soft cover is hedges, woods, trees, bushes
etc. which offer concealment but no real protection. The following situations
will show how cover is used on the Battlefield :

        1) A trooper behind a hedge is leaning out and shooting at an enemy
model 6" away. He fails to kill this model, who, in their own turn, decides to
blow the scum away. As the enemy shot, it is taken as said that they did not
jump into the open and let rip with their gun, but merely parted some greenery
and poked the gun barrel through before letting rip. The target has the benefit
of cover in the shooting phase. Shots entering soft cover have a -1 To Hit
modifier.

        2) A trooper can lean around the corner of a building, other piece of
hard cover, and let rip at the enemy without showing too much of themselves.
The model must be placed at the edge of this protection (i.e. : the corner) and
a declaration is made that the model is leaning out to fire. This is useful
when you want to fire but don't want your man to be wasted by the enemy
straight after. Shots coming into Hard cover have a -2 To Hit modifier.

        3) Inside a wood, trees, bushes and vines make a tangle growth. Woods
like this count as being soft cover for targets.

        4) Troops inside pits, craters and trenches are well protected from
enemy fire and are said to be in hard cover - even if the firer is on the lip
firing straight down onto them.

        5) Models inside buildings, near windows and doors and inside vehicles
count as being in hard cover at all times. Models in ENCLOSED vehicles gain no
benefits from this cover as their armour around them is more than enough
protection.

                                    To Hit

        Nominating Targets : Before ANY shooting or measuring takes Place,
players must nominate their targets for their men. Only when all this has been
done are any measuring tapes used. Shots that are outside the maximum limits
automatically miss and cause no harm (i.e.: a weapon has a 24" max. range and
the target is 26" away, all shots from the firer will miss the target). Area
effect weapons that miss in this way explode harmlessly. This particular
section requires good judgement. Players cannot change their mind once a target
has been nominated.

        Range : In most circumstances, it is easier to hit an enemy at close
range, rather than a long shot. Details of a weapons short and long ranges are
given in the weapons sections. The maximum range a weapon can be fired is the
most extreme number listed under the Long Range section of the weapons Profile.
Targets outside this are automatically missed. Only once the target has been
nominated is any measuring done.

        Hitting the Target : This is totally dependant upon the firers BS total
or Ballistic skill, which is used for all firing (except for pistols and basic
weapons in H-H combat). The chart below gives the score required on a d6 To Hit
a target, without any modifiers.

        BS      Score required          BS      Score Required
        1               6               6               1
        2               5               7               0
        3               4               8               -1
        4               3               9               -2
        5               2               10              -3

Note that, even though the score required goes to -3, the lowest To Hit score
allowed is a 2. If a 1 is rolled, the shot automatically misses.
Some shots are easier than others, and the modifiers below are taken from the
firers dice roll.

        -1      Shooting from a vehicle moving at its Fast Rate. This applies
                to vehicles as well.
        -1      Firing at a rapid moving target. This means anything that moved
                between 10 and 20" in its last movement turn.
        -1      If the target is in soft cover
        -2      If the target is in hard cover
        -2      Fining at a very rapid target, which has moved more than 20" in
                its last movement turn.

        Weapon Modifiers : These are written under the Weapon Profile as To Hit
short and Long. These are added or subtracted (dependant upon the modifier) to
the To Hit dice roll.

        To Hit scores of 7+ : In the occurrence that a model is so shit that
they need more than 6 To Hit, this section allows them to roll more dice in the
hope of hitting. If the model requires 7,8 or 9, they must first roll a 6 on a
d6 To Hit. If this is made, they may roll a d6 again. On a 4, they have reached
7, on a 5 they reach 8 and on a 6 they have reached 9 To Hit. If any model
requires 10+ To Hit, they cannot do it.

        Damage : This is the same as in the WH40K rulebook.

        Saving Throws : This is the same as the WH40K rulebook, including the
save modifiers.

         Taking Shots Together : In cases where several models are firing
together as a group, and all need the same basic To Hit roll, you can save time
by rolling for all the shots at once. If the targets all have the same
Toughness, then damage dice can likewise be rolled. If any wounds are taken,
and saves failed, the nearest models to the group can be removed. It doesn't
matter which models, except in the case of a Character model or a specialist
weapon. There is a random chance of these being hit compared to the others.

        Weapons with a Blast Area : Area effect weapons cause a large amount of
destruction when they hit, covering a set area. This can range from 1" radius
to 3+. When nominating a target with an area effect, place the required
template centrally above the target. Anything under that template has a chance
of being hit. If a To Hit roll is successful, the area has been hit by the
weapon. All models within the area are automatically hit. Those on the edge are
hit on a 4+ on a d6.

        If your shot misses, it will scatter. The new rules use a Scatter Dice,
which I will explain below :

        Scatter Dice : You can either buy one of these, or make one yourself.
        The scatter dice is a normal 6 sided dice. To make one, merely blank
out a normal d6 and allow the paint to dry. Then, on 2 opposite sides, write
HIT inside a 'scope' circle, with an arrow over the I of the HIT. On all the
other 4 sides, draw a diagonal arrow pointing to the top left corner of the
dice. This is it - easy eh?

        Roll for Scatter : To determine where the shot lands, roll the scatter
dice. The arrow indicates the direction the shot travels. Roll 1d6 for how many
inches it goes, and place the centre of the template over this spot. Any models
under it are hit by the weapon. If a HIT comes up on the dice, the direction
travelled by the shot is the way the arrow above the I points. HIT rolls travel
2d6 inches instead of d6. If the number rolled on the 2d6 roll is a double then
the shot is a DUD and a roll is required on the DUD Table.

        Maximum Scatter : No shot will ever scatter more than 1/2 the distance
travelled, therefore if a target is 10" away, any scatter roll will have a

maximum of 5". Scatter shots may cause a shot to land outside the weapons
maximum range. This is O.K. and hits are worked out as normal.


                                Dud Shots Table
        Duds or misfires only occur when a double is rolled on the HIT scatter
roll. This causes some major upsets and surprises. Roll 1d6 :

        1: KERRBOOOOOM : The shell jams in the breech or the energy surge
overloads the weapon, causing an explosion. Place the Template over the weapon
firer, and work out damage as normal. Even if the firer survives, the weapon is
destroyed.

        2: Explodes Prematurely : The shot explodes within d6" of the firer in
direct line with the Target. Place the template over the area and work out
damage as normal.

        3: Jams : The weapon jams due to mechanical and electrical defects. It
cannot fire until it is unjammed. A jammed weapon can only be unjammed by the
wielder if they remain stationary in the Movement turn. A roll is required at
the end of the turn. On a 4+ from a d6 roll, the weapon is unjammed.

        4: Misfire : Due to an unexpected energy drain, or because the trooper
didn't release the safety, the shot fails to fire this turn. It will be cleared
for the next turn.

        5: Explodes in Mid Air : The shot has no effect on those under the
template as the shell fails to detonate or the energy is dissipated before
landing.

        6: Out of control : The shell or energy blast spins out of control
after leaving the barrel. It travels d6" forwards, then scatters d6" before
landing. However, it cannot scatter back at the firer, so reroll any scatter
dice that make it do so. Place the template on the ground and work out any
damage as normal.


                                   Grenades
        There are many different types of grenade, listed in the grenade
section. A player may throw 1 grenade instead of firing in the shooting phase.
This is different from the original book, as grenades were slow weapons.
Grenade attacks are made exactly the same as any other attack. Rolls To Hit,
Damage and save are made as normal. Scatter is as for area effect weapons (see
above). Place the centre of the Burst Template over the target, and any models
under it are hit. Those on the edge are hit on a d6 roll of 4+. Work out damage
or special grenade properties as normal. The range of a grenade depends upon
how strong a character is. The range is the following : a maximum of 2" + 2 x
Strength of the model in inches i.e.: a model has 4 S, it can throw 10" (2 + 8
(2x4) =10). Therefore the minimum range thrown is 4". The maximum for any throw
is 12", even if the S = 10.

        Smoke and Blind Grenades - These are not normal grenades, but are used
to block LOS. They can be thrown at any area, but a roll is required or they
scatter as normal. These grenades will scatter on a d6 roll of 2+ by d6" (upto
a maximum of 1/2 the distance thrown).

                               Shooting into C/C
        Normally, shooting into H-H is not allowed, however, if players wish to
do so, they have a chance of hitting their own men. For each person involved in
the hand to Hand combat, randomise any hits made upon the combat amongst the
fighters. This could mean that 1 side takes a lot of damage, whilst the other
takes acceptable losses. Remember, those involved in C/C cannot shoot back or
even shoot in the shooting phase.

                                OVERWATCH
        This is where the new rules really begin to pay dividends compared to
the old ones. Overwatch gives troopers the ability to cover their brother
marines and allies as they move stealthily through enemy territory.

        Covering troops do not move, and must be stated as going into Overwatch
(or use an overwatch counter). They do not fire, but watch for enemy movement
in the enemies turn, ready to open fire if any should stick their faces through
the undergrowth. Often 2 squads will cover each other in this way, one moving
forward whilst the other covers, and switching in the next turn.

        The overwatch rule allows models to fire in the enemies Movement phase.
Models on overwatch may do nothing in their own turn but must wait for the
enemy turn to come along. In this turn, troops may fire at enemies who are in
Line of Sight, or who present themselves at any time during the movement phase.
A model on the enemy team can therefore be shot at before, during or after
their Movement by an overwatch model. Models that do not move can also be
targeted so long as LOS occurs. The most common use of overwatch is to stop
enemies getting from cover to cover.

        As soon as the Overwatch model shoots, the counter is removed and it's
turn is over. Work out any Hits and damage etc. as normal, except that there is
a modifier for Overwatch firers. This is a -1 To Hit modifier for troops
charging the firer to enter into H-H combat, or for troops entering or leaving
cover.
        This is the ONLY time a model has a free shot at a charging model. This
rule replaces the old one when anyone could fire at a charging target. They may
still run from an enemy if they do not fire (as in the old rules).

        Overwatch is lost at the start of the Players next turn, and new
Overwatch counters must be issued. A model that is shot at (not necessarily
hit) automatically loses Overwatch. This will not often happen, as Overwatch
models get to fire in the enemies Movement Phase, so most or all will have
fired before the enemies Shooting phase. It is possible a model on overwatch
can be struck by an off target shot however, which means that Overwatch is
lost.

                                SUSTAINED FIRE
        Sustained fire replaces Following Fire in the old rules. It allows a
weapon to fire more than 1 shot in the same shooting phase. Sustained Fire
weapons normally fire normally for the first shot, then a motor forces the
extra shells or energy into the weapon. This can make it prone to jamming.
Sustained Weapons are dealt with in the following way :

        Nominate the target as normal and shoot once as normal. If the shot
hits and makes a successful damage (Wound) roll, the player may choose to fire
the weapon again at the same target or at another within 4" of the target. The
player may continue to shoot so long as they roll To Hit and Damage as normal.
They stop when they wish, run out of targets, miss, fail to wound. It makes no
difference if an Armour saving throw is made, they can continue to shoot so
long as they Wound.

        If the firer fires at the same target they receive +1 To Hit. If they
change target they receive -1 To Hit. If at any time, the firer rolls a 1 To
Hit on sustained fire and the shot is not their first one, the weapon
malfunctions, and cannot be used until mended. Weapons are mended by the model
remaining motionless for a round as he tries to repair the weapon. At the end
of the following Movement round roll a d6. The weapon is mended on a 4+.

                                 Move or Fire
        For most weapons, a trooper can move and fire in the same turn.
However, for heavy weapons this is different. A trooper with a weapon that has
Move or Fire upon it cannot Move and Fire in the same turn. They can do one or
the other. Let it be noted that even moving on the spot to face a new enemy is
termed as movement and the weapon cannot be fired.

                       Choosing a Target (optional Rule)
        In days of Yore, the rules stated that targets had to be the nearest
models to the firer. This rule is an option. The new rules state :

        A model may ignore vehicles in favour of other targets, or other
targets in favour for Vehicles. In other words they can target the nearest
vehicle or other target.

        A model has the opportunity to fire at a building or similar objective
within LOS.

        Models in H-H or who are routing may be ignored.
        Targets in cover may be ignored if an enemy is out in the open, or
vice- versa.

                        HAND TO HAND COMBAT
        Of all the forms of fighting, H-H combat is the most violent and
demanding, adversaries doing their best to kill the enemy. It is resolved
differently from shooting, and is based upon the fighters WS or Weapon Skill.
H-H is more important to some troops than others, namely Genestealers and
Terminators, whose full power come to the fore in this type of combat. H-H is
assumed to involve grappling and striking with natural and man made weapons in
an effort to destroy the opponent. At this range, marksmanship counts for
little when all the enemy wishes to do is rip you a new asshole. Speed and
brute force count for a lot in H-H combat, the winner usually being the one who
strikes the first killing blow through the opponents armour.

        Models in H-H : Opposing models fight in the H-H combat phase
simultaneously. Once engaged in H-H, neither model can shoot in the shooting
phase, nor can they move at all until the H-H section is over. Only pistols and
H-H combat weapons can be used in this section. Damage and save modifiers can
be taken from either the weapon OR the model, whichever is the higher.

        Which models can fight : Only models in base - base contact count as
being in H-H combat and only they can fight in the H-H combat phase. Even if it
is not your turn your models may fight in this phase. Models are allowed a 360
degree fire arc when they are in H-H, this representing the fact that the
warriors are whirling, dodging and generally moving to and fro. If the model is
engaged against more than 1 C/C opponent, they are said to be in multiple
combat.

        Charging : This is the same as in the original book, however there are
modifiers. Only enemies in Overwatch can fire at a charging enemy, unless the
model has a specialist weapon which allows this. Distance cannot be measured
for a charge, but must be guessed and declared before movement occurs. Models
can charge over linear obstacles into H-H even if this stops the actual bases
touching, so long as the enemy is within its charge rate (M x2"). The charger
suffers no modifiers for this obstacle. Models which are moved randomly for
whatever reason and that bang into enemy models are said to be engaged in H-H,
and need not charge. The opponent of the charge can move away as normal, but
does not get the free shot (see above).

                            Close Combat Procedure
        Most Combats are 1 on 1 which means your model is engaged with another
singular enemy model. These combats are worked out as below. When a model is
fighting 2+ models this is called a multiple Combat.

1 : Both Players roll a d6 for each ATTACK score their model has.

2 : Each Player picks his single HIGHEST scoring dice and adds this to his WS.
Choose only the 1 dice to add. He then adds any other modifiers that apply from
the C/C modifiers chart.

3 : The player who has the highest score is the winner. In the case of a tie,
the model with the highest Initiative wins. If they both have the same I score,
it is a draw.

4 : Compare the score of both combatants. The difference between the scores are
the number of hits the winner gets on the loser. If you won the combat on a Tie
you get 1 hit.

5 : For each hit the winner gets, roll to damage, exactly as for shooting. The
strength of the Model or the weapon may be used, whichever is the bigger total.

6 : Models that are wearing armour may make a saving throw, exactly as for
shooting damage. They only make 1 save, irrelevant of how many Wounds are
actually caused.

        Attack Dice : During H-H the model attacks with as many d6 as they have
Attacks. If a model carries a C/C weapon in each hand then the model
automatically rolls 1 extra dice to represent the extra weapon. Remember that
even though you roll an extra dice, you only take the highest dice rolled for
your total.

        Parry Rule : A warrior armed with a Sword can [parry any attack from an
enemy. To represent this, models armed with swords may force an opponent to
reroll their highest d6 roll before the winner of the combat is determined.
An opponent who rolls many dice can always pick their next highest score if
they are forced to reroll.

        Fumble Rule : In the Hurly Burly of C/C, it is easy for an attacker to
fumble his weapon. This is represented in the following way : If any Player
rolls a 1 when rolling their Attacks dice or the Parry dice, this is given to
the opponent to roll. They also add +1 to their final total for each fumbled
dice they receive (see C/C modifiers table).

        Multiple Combats : When 2 or more models are fighting a single model,
it is said to be a multiple combat. This takes place as normal, except that
once the attacker has killed one of the opponents, they must turn and face the
next one, who gains an extra dice to roll, and adds +1 to their final total.
They must do this until all enemies are slain or until they die. For each extra
opponent, add +1 attack dice and +1 to their final total. Therefore the 4th
person attacked by a model would roll 3 extra Attack dice and add +3 to their
final score.

                         Close Combat Modifiers Table

        +2      Frenzied - an attacker who is frenzied gets a +2 Bonus to their
                score. Frenzy is the same as in the WH40K book.
        +1      Fumble - Add +1 to your final score for each fumbled dice.
        +1      Charging - If the model charged INTO H-H add +1.
        +1      Higher Up - If the Models base is on higher ground they gain +1
                to their final score. You don't get this advantage merely
                because your model is larger than the enemy.
        +1      Multiple Combat - Add +1 for each extra combatant that attacks
                the same enemy in the same round.
        -1      Obstacle - If you charged an enemy behind an obstacle, you get
                a -1 modifier. This is for the 1st turn only.
        -1      Improvised Attack - If the model has no natural attacks and no
                H-H combat weapons they get -1.

        Follow Up : If models enemies are slain, they can make a special move.
The victor can move 2" in any direction and it does not count as Movement for
the next round. If models who follow up charge into a fresh H-H situation,
leave the models until the H-H section in the following turn. Because they are
engaged in H-H neither model can do anything the following turn. During the
Follow Up, no movement modifiers are taken for obstacles. Terrain modifies as
normal.

        Unit Coherency : This is suspended by models in H-H but they must try
to get back to within 2" of another model of the same squad as soon as possible
after the H-H combat phase is over.

        Breaking Off : Models engaged in H-H have an option of breaking off.
They turn tail and flee from H-H, however, 1 round of H-H combat takes place
with the runner having a WS of 0. If this does not kill the runner, they can be
moved away from H-H at twice normal Move Rate.

        H-H Combat with Vehicle Templates : Targets such as vehicles,
dreadnoughts and robots that are hit in H-H combat the attacker can pick which
particular place they hit. Armour penetration occurs normally.

                                   Vehicles
        Vehicles cannot move into H-H combat, but a model may attack any
vehicle it is in Base to Base combat with. Models attacking vehicles
automatically hit 1 area per Attack. Grenades and Heavy weapons can be used in
H-H with vehicles, in exception to the normal rules. Vehicles which are not
moving allow attackers more chance of an attack penetrating and they receive an
extra 1d6 to their Armour Penetration roll.


         WARHAMMER 40,000 Weapons Update (from the New Battle Manual)

        At the outset, I just want to say that these new rules for weapons can
be used with the original rules set in the WH40K manual, and need not be used
in conjunction with the new rules. However, the weapon updates were really
bought about due to the rule changes and are therefore invariably linked.

        Not too much has changed for some of the more basic weapons, although
there are some of the older weapons that have been removed. These include :
        Basic Weapons : The sling.
        Heavy Weapons : Grenade Launcher - this has been replaced with the AGL.
                        D Cannon, now an Eldar Support Weapon.
        C/C Weapons : Antique Pistol
                      Neuro Disruptor
                      Sawn off Shotgun
        Grenades / Missiles : Melta Bomb Grenades - these are now only
available for Missile Launchers in the form of missiles.

                Knock Out grenades.
These were viewed as being a waste of time / money / points / paper / print
etc. and detracted from the overall game plan of a battle set in the 41st
Millennium. Some might argue that the Grenade Launcher with its indirect fire
was a good weapon to have, but this was merely a mortar and the new rules
update its particular battlefield role.

        Many grenades have had their Area Effects updated, as you will see, and
Tech Levels for equipment on a model are no longer required, as Haywire
grenades have reduced  effects, only the largest models on the battlefield
being affected.

        Flamers now no longer have a distance, but instead have a predetermined
template, much like an area effect template, anything under which is hit. Those
on the edge are hit on 4+, as normal.

                                  H-H WEAPON

                                 Banshee Mask
These contain a psychosonic amplifier which intensifies the Eldars battle cry,
allowing the Howling Banshees to release their rage into a deafening scream
when they charge into H-H. Enemies exposed to this suffer almost total
paralysis as their Central Nervous system is overloaded by psychic energy.

Special Rules : The target charged may never run away from H-H, nor fire at the
charger - even if they are in Overwatch, but must hold their ground. During the
1st round of C/C only, the paralysed model has a WS of 0.
                The Banshee mask only operates when the Eldar Banshee Warrior
charges INTO H-H, not when they are charged. In second and subsequent rounds of
H-H, the Howling Banshee mask has no effect.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S   D   Save      Special
Close Combat Only       Enemy WS=0 in 1st round of charge    C/C


                                Blades and Saws
The rules for this are the same as previously. Any combat accessory is regarded
as being either a Blade or a Saw, allowing a Basic Weapon to be used in H-H
combat.

Special Rules : Models using these combat accessories have a -1 To Hit modifier
due to using an improvised weapon. All other stats remain the same.


                                  Boneswords
These are Tyrranid weapons, and are used in pairs by the Tyrranid Warriors. The
Bioweapons themselves are made of a massive horn, honed razor sharp with deep
serrations along it. The blades are alive and capable of growth, repair and are
constructed from living tissue. The hilt is hard chitinous bone. The brain lies
deep within the hilt, and although incapable of independent thought can channel
a massive burst of psychic energy through its blade when used in H-H. This
gives the sword its bite and the high modifiers.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S   D   Save      Special
Close Combat Only                          6   1    -2       C/C


                                   ChainFist
This weapon is designed purely for Terminator marines. its primary role is for
cutting holes in the sides of ships, but it makes an awesome C/C weapon. It is
essentially a Power Glove and a Chainsword combined as one, with an energy
field around it. The field disperses the weapons energy as soon as it strikes
in combat, frying those unlucky enough to come into contact with it, as the
chain rips through armour. This weapon is powerful enough to rip through
vehicles and Dreadnoughts. its only disadvantage is its weight and bulk, but
this is offset with the Tactical Dreadnought armour all Terminator marines
wear.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S   D   Save      Special
Close Combat Only                          10  d4   -6       C/C


                                  Chainsword
This remains unchanged from the basic model in the WH40 rulebook.

                                 Digital Laser
These replace the Jokaero Digital Lasers from the Army Lists and from the Basic
manual. They are similar in that they are built into a ring and fired from the
finger. They do not stop the model carrying other weapons due to their size,
but do increase their chances in H-H combat.

Special Rules : These are worn as rings or on the knuckles of such items as
Power Gloves. They don't stop models using other weapons. A model may have upto
4 digilaser per hand (or a total of 8). In H-H a model may shoot his Digilasers
before any actual H-H combat takes place. This is resolved as shooting, it
being decreed that the model blasts away at close range as the enemy charges
in. Once C/C has been initiated, the Digilasers play no extra part in the
combat, and no extra dice are rolled for them.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S   D   Save      Special
Close Combat Only                          3   1    -1       C/C


                                Harlequins Kiss
Also known as the Monofilament Injector. Only Eldar Harlequins are allowed this
weaponry. It is a tubular weapon strapped to the back of the arm, and is
devastating in H-H combat. By punching forward, the Harlequin releases 100' of
monofilament wire, which will penetrate any power field, before it rips through
armour and bone, turning those unlucky enough to be hit into jelly, before the
wire is whipped back into its home.

Special Rules : Determine H-H combat hits as normal. If the target is hit, they
ignore a Damage roll, but must save or die. If they save they are unaffected by
the attack. The Kiss may be used against Vehicles, Dreadnoughts and Robots, but
it cannot cause damage unless it penetrates armour. A Harlequins Kiss
penetrates 1d6 points of armour per hit. If the number rolled is a 6, it
penetrates a further d6 points, and if this second roll is also a 6, it will
keep penetrating d6 points until it fails to roll a 6. This pointage is then
added together to get a total of armour points penetrated. If the armour is
penetrated by this weapon, roll on the chart below to see its effects : Roll d6


                        Vehicle Crew Penetration Chart
        1       1 randomly determined crewman is slain by the wire.
        2-4     Roll d6 for each crewman. On a 1-3, they are OK. On a 4+ they
                are slain.
        5       Roll a d6 for each crewman. On a 1 they are OK. On a 2+ they
                are slain.
        6       All crew are killed.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S   D   Save      Special
Close Combat Only                                            C/C - as above


                                Lightning Claws
These are used in pairs by Terminator marines. They consist of Talons sheathed
in a Power Glove, and they arc with electricity. They are similar in effect to
ChainFists.

Special Rules : These can only be worn in pairs by Terminators They affect
vehicles differently due to their nature. They penetrate armour with a score of
8 + d3 + d6. If 2 or more hits are caused, they penetrate with a score of 8 +
3d6.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S   D   Save      Special
Close Combat Only                          8   d3   -5       C/C - as above


                                 Mandiblaster
These are weapons that are built into the helmets of Eldar Striking Scorpions.
They are called the scorpions sting, and are effective upto a yard, where they
will spit a stream of tiny metallic needles at an incoming enemy. These do
little damage to armoured targets but can lacerate unprotected enemies. They
metal only makes a hole for the following laser blast that the nodules emit
straight after the metal has been fired. This ignites the metal, turning it
into plasma, and it is this that is so deadly. The weapon is a highly advanced
secondary weapon and is used in conjunction with other weapons.

Special Rules : The mandiblaster hit is done before H-H combat takes place. It
is worked out in the same way as shooting, representing the model blasting away
as they are charged. Once C/C has been initiated, they serve no further effect
and no dice rolls are made for them. If a hit is scored, searing laser arcs
leap from the mandibles on the helmet and send jets of energy into the target.
Roll 1d6. If the number rolled is higher than the targets Toughness, 1 W has
been scored by the Eldar. Mandiblaster attacks are resolved with a save
modifier.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S   D   Save      Special
Close Combat Only                          -   1    -2


                                   Power Axe
This weapon has the same stats as in the Manual, but it now takes 2 hands to
use.

                                  Power Glove
This has the same stats as in the manual, except that the hand cannot hold
another weapon, therefore models with a Power Glove cannot hold Basic weapons
or other 2 handed (such as Heavy weapons), as the fist will crush them.

                                  Power Maul
This weapon is used by the Adeptus Arbites Judges of the Imperial Guard. This
galactic Police force hunts down criminals and enforces Imperial Justice and
Law. It is similar to other Power weapons in that it is a maul surrounded by a
Power Field.

Special Rules : Any model killed in the game by this weapon is merely
unconscious but is considered dead, and they may come back for the next game.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S   D   Save      Special
Close Combat only                          5   1    -3       C/C


                                  Power Sword
This weapon has been updated, and is identical in effect to the Power Axe,
except that it takes only 1 hand to use, leaving the other free for a further
H-H combat weapon or pistol. You will notice it now has a -3 Save modifier.

                           Rough Rider Hunting Lance
This weapon is used by the Imperial Rough Riders. The lance is armed with an
explosive head, which shatters on impact, smashing the target and shattering
armour and flesh. It is essentially a 1 hit disposable weapon.

Special Rules : The lance tip explodes in the 1st round of H-H combat, and is
useless thereafter. Each model fighting loses its lance after the combat round,
even if it fails to hit. If the lancers charge into H-H, they gain +2 bonus
instead of +1. This bonus applies only to the 1st round of combat and is not
effective if they are being charged.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S   D   Save      Special
Close Combat Only                          6   1    -2       +2 C/C mod for
                                                             1st round - see
                                                             above.

                          Swords and other Hand Arms
This section includes Hafted weapons, swords and knives.

Special Rules : This is not an improvised attack. Any attacks with these
weapons are at the Users strength.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S   D   Save      Special
Close Combat Only                      As User 1     -       C/C as above


                        Thunder Hammer and Storm Shield
This weapon is used by Terminator Marines, and is always used in conjunction
with Storm Shields. The Thunder Hammer is a hammer with a power generator which
energises only when the hammer strikes its target. This releases vast amounts
of energy into the target, shattering them with a crack of thunder. If it
wasn't for the Terminators own armour, he would probably be knocked over
himself. The storm shield is a plate with a power generator which emits bolts
of electricity.

Special Rules : The thunder hammer has no strength value as this is not
required. There is no Strength versus Toughness roll to make. If the Thunder
Hammer hits it automatically damages the target, and an armour save is
required. In the case of vehicles, the hull is penetrated automatically by the
thunder hammer. Storm shields add a Basic save of 5+ before any armour saves
are taken. These are always used in conjunction with Thunder Hammers. This save
ignores ANY save mods of weapons striking the Terminator.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S   D   Save      Special
Close Combat Only                              d6   -5       C/C - see above

                                   PISTOLS

Auto Pistol     Bolt Pistol     Las Pistol      Stub Gun

These pistols remain the same as in the manual.

                                  Hand Flamer
This weapon no longer has a distance, but instead has a template. It is a short
triangular template with a curved tip. Any models under it are hit. Those on
the edge are hit on 4+. The template is used for shooting in the shooting
phase. In H-H combat, hits are resolved as normal. The template is 4" long by
2" across at the end.

Special Rules : If a model is hit, work out damage as normal. If the model is
slain, remove it as normal. If the model is not slain, then an immediate Hand

Flamer Hit Chart roll is required. Because flamers use a volatile burning
chemical, it is possible to set even vehicles or dreadnoughts alight.

                             Hand Flamer Hit Chart
        1-3     Target does not catch fire - the amount of fuel is quickly
                extinguished.
        4-6     Target is smothered with fuel and ignites.

Once a target is alight, roll d6 for the Fire Test Chart.

                                Fire Test Chart
        1-5     The fire burns for another automatic Hit. Work out damage as
normal, and remove the model if it is slain. If the target is not slain it will
move randomly and is unable to do anything else for that turn. Vehicles,
Dreadnoughts, Robots and Terminators may choose to ignore Flamer hits.
         6      The fire goes out. The Target may not fire or move in the
current turn, but is OK for the turn after. Vehicles etc. may move and fire as
normal.

Any friendly model within 1" may help douse the fire. Roll d6. If the result is
a 6, the flames are beaten out. Add +1 to the dice roll for every model
helping.
Models which are frenzied may ignore flamer hits, but will continue to take
damage as normal.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S   D   Save      Special
special Rules                              4   1    -2       C/C -as above


                                 Needle Pistol
This weapon has been updated. It now fires a laser followed by a toxin dart
into the target. The toxin will kill the enemy (as Toxin Grenade). Even
vehicles and dreadnoughts can be affected - not by the toxin, but by the laser.

Special Rules : Any model can be hit including Vehicles, Dreadnoughts, robots
etc. When used against living targets, no S v. T roll is required - it is save
or die. Toxins cannot affect the Eldar Avatar or similar demons, nor can they
affect Genestealers or Tyrranids (although in the old rules they could).
Genestealer hybrids are affected as normal.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
   0-8          8-16       +2        - as above 1    -1       C/C -as above.


                                 Plasma Pistol
This is the pistol version of the plasma gun. Known sometimes as the plasma
blaster. When the plasma shell hits the target tremendous heat and energy are
released, destroying the target.
Special Rules: The energy used by the plasma pistol is so vast that once it has
been fired it takes 2 turns to recharge. You can use a recharge counter to
display this. The plasma pistol now has sustained fire but you cannot have
sustained fire in hand to hand combat. It otherwise conforms to the old rules.


                                Shuriken Pistol

The shuriken pistol is the smaller version of the shuriken catapult. The size
of the weapon reduces the range,rate of fire and power. The missiles it uses
are exactly the same as its larger brother. It is exactly the same as the old
version except it now has a save modifier of -2.

                                  Web Pistol

The web gun or glue gun is an unusual weapon not seen frequently on the
battlefield. It is mainly used for crowd control. The canister of the web gun
contains a special gluey chemical called web-chem. Once the target has been hit
the web contracts and binds the victim tightly preventing all movement and
action. If the victim tries to struggle the web tightens and the victim will be
crushed to death.

                                Special Rules
Once the victim has been hit the target is enmeshed: no damage roll and no
saving throw are required, The victim can only be set free by web solvent which
is carried be all web gun crews. However, webbed models may try and break free
of the web chem. The Player rolls a d6 and adds his strength. If the score is 9
or more the model is free and may act as normal. If the model fails then he
must make an armour saving throw or take 1 wound. Drivers of open topped
vehicles can be webbed. This has the effect of making the vehicle go out of
control.

                                RANGED WEAPONS
                                       
 The following remain unchanged :
        Auto Gun                Bolt Gun                Las Gun
        Musket (move or fire)   Shuriken Catapult       Melta Gun

                                      Bow
This remains just about the same, except that it only has an Armour penetration
of d6, rather than d6 + 3, and armoured targets get +2 to their saving throw if
they have a save of 4+ normally (carapace and powered armour).

                                   Crossbow
This remains the same, except that it can Move OR Fire, it penetrates armour at
d6 +1, and models with a Basic save of 4+, get a +2 modifier to this if hit by
a Crossbow.

                                 Deathspitter
This is another Tyrranid weapon, and is a bio weapon used by the warriors of
that race. It is a symbiote of 3 different creatures which combine a chitinous
shell, a brood chamber and an arming orifice for the maggot like things it
fires. The maggot has a corrosive body, which causes the firing chamber to
convulse and spit the maggot at the enemy. Targets hit are killed by a mixture
of corrosiveness, velocity and poison. Nearby targets can also get splattered
by this maggot which eats through armour and flesh. If a Tyrranid hits with a
Deathspitter models within 2" are hit on a 4+, and suffer a S3 hit with no
saving throw modifier. Note that the Deathspitter doesn't have to wound, merely
hit the target.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
  0-12         12-32       +1              6    1    -2       As above


                                    Flamer
This is identical in nature to the Hand Flamer, except the template is 8.5"
long by 2.5" wide at the widest part of the triangle. It has the same stats.


                                  Fleshborer
This is another Tyrranid Bio weapon used by the warriors. It is a complex
weapon where brooding Borer beetles lay their eggs, which hatch and mature.
When the weapon is fired, the beetle is fired by a massive electrical shock

which goads it into frenzied action. Once it is fired, it will bite through the
first target it hits frenziedly, as its life drains away.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
  0-8           8-16       +1              4    1


                                 Graviton Gun
The Basic stats for this gun remain the same, however, it has a different
Special Rule than previously.

Special Rules : Targets that are living (not vehicles) which are hit by this
weapon cannot move for the rest of the game, but can use psionic powers and
fire in the shooting phase if they can roll 4+ on a d6. If the target is a
vehicle, ignore any armour penetration. Hits cause a roll on the damage tables
at +1 to the dice roll for that hit location.

                                   Hand Bow
This is the same as previous except that armour penetration is only d6 points.
Models with Carapace and Powered armour have a +2 Save modifier if hit by this
weapon.

                       Auxiliary Grenade Launcher (AGL)
This weapon was previously allowed only to the Imperial Guard, but can now be
used by anyone instead of a grenade Launcher. AGLs fit to any basic weapon with
some size (therefore bows and crossbows etc. are out). It is a tubular piece of
equipment that fits atop the weapon, allowing it fire grenades. They can only
fire pre - loaded  grenades, mostly Frag and Krak. When the user wishes to fire
a grenade, he flicks a switch on the weapon which turns the basic weapon off
and the AGL on. When the trigger is pulled, a grenade will issue forth,
hopefully in the right direction.

Special Rules : The AGL must be pre - loaded with a SINGLE type of grenade.
Ammunition expenditure is not taken into account, it being seen that the AGL
has enough ammo for the battle. A trooper with this weapon can fire only 1 of
the possible 2 he has - either the Grenade Launcher or the Basic weapon. They
can't fire both in the same round. Stats given below are for the Frag and Krak
grenades used with this weapon. Others can be used at the GMs discretion and
are covered by the various Army Lists available.

Frag    S3      Dam 1   Sv -1   2" blast radius
Krak    S6      Dam d6  Sv -3   No blast area.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
  0-6           6-12                -1                        As above


                             Pack Grenade Launcher
The PGL is used by Eldar Harlequin Warlocks. It is a harness that fits onto the
shoulders and kicks grenades forwards when the Warlock activates it.

Special Rules : The PGL is an exception to normal rules in that can be fired in
the shooting phase in addition to a hand held weapon. The launcher must be pre
- loaded with a single type of grenade. All other effects are the same as the
AGL in respect to ammo and the number it can carry.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
   0-8          8-16                -1                        As above


                              Needle Sniper Rifle
This is a bigger version than the needle pistol, and for all intents and
purposes is exactly the same, except that it has a longer range.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
   0-16        16-32       +1              -    1    -1     As pistol.


                               Ogryn Ripper Gun
This can only be used by Ogryns. It is a drum fed automatic combat shotgun and
is used by BONEHEADS, Ogryn leaders. These are discussed under the particular
Army Lists. The trigger houses a cut off switch which stops the Ogryn opening
up and emptying the entire drum, an entertaining proposition for Ogryns who
delight in the big bangs and bone shakings the weapon gives off when fired.

Special Rules : Ogryn Ripper guns are designed so that close combat fighting is
easier for the Ogryns, allowing them to fire a hail of shots that thick they
can't fail to hit their targets at short range. Because of this, no To Hit roll
is made at short range, the burst will automatically strike the enemy.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
   0-4          4-8      Always     -2     4    1           Sustained Fire
                                                            As above


                                  Plasma Gun
This is exactly the same as in the original manual, except it has sustained
instead of Following fire.

                                    Shotgun
These are smooth bore combat shotguns which fires a massive low velocity shot,
which fragments over a wide area before hitting the target. They have magazines
and rarely need reloading. It can fire solid or scatter shot. Solid balls have
an S of 4, scatter an S of 3, plus an area effect.

Special Rules : If a target is hit and not slain by a shotgun, then it is
knocked back 2", and will fall on a 4+ on a d6. A knocked over model must spend
its next movement phase standing up. This rule does not affect vehicles,
dreadnoughts or similar.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
   0-4          4-18                -1  solid 4 1    -        See Above
                                        Scatt 3 1    -        1" burst Radius



                               Shuriken Catapult
This is the same as normal apart from the fact it has sustained fire.


                                 Storm Bolter
This is a specially modified pair of bolt guns made for Terminators, allowing
them suppressive fire on enemy targets. The 2 guns fire in unison at the same
targets.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
   0-12         12-24      +1              4    1    -1       Sustained Fire


                                HEAVY WEAPONS

                                Assault Cannon
This is a self loading machine autocannon, issued to Terminator marines. It is
rapid firing and devastating at close range. Due to the speed at which it
fires, the weapon is prone to overheating and jamming.

Special Rules : The Assault cannon will jam on a 1 on a To Hit roll on the
second or subsequent shot on sustained fire. However, once it has jammed, it
cannot be unjammed and the weapon is rendered useless. On a d6 roll of a 6 the
weapon will explode and slay the user instantly.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
   0-12         12-32      +1              8    d10  -3       Heavy 2"
                                                            Sustained Fire


                                  Auto Cannon
As normal, except for this : Heavy 2" penalty ; Sustained Fire ; Move or Fire


                                 Battle Cannon
This is a heavy version of the Auto Cannon and cannot be carried, but must be
vehicle mounted to be fired.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
   0-20        20-72                       8   2d6   -3       1.5" blast area
                                                           Vehicle mount only


                           Conversion Beam Projector
Commonly known as the Beamer, this weapon has been heavily updated from the
original stats. It is basically the same, using the targets mass against
itself, but the rules have been changed to give targets a better chance of
escaping, as it is very slow to build up power when fired.

Special Rules : Roll To Hit the chosen target as normal, but because it takes
so long to build up power an agile target is given ample opportunity to move
out of the beamers way. The score To Hit is therefore modified in relation to
the targets maximum Move.

                             To Hit Penalty Table
                           Targets Maximum Movement
                          0-2"  2-3"    3-5"    5"+
To Hit Penalty             -1    -2      -3     -4

Because the beamer uses the targets own mass to destroy them, they will wound
on a d6 roll of 3+. There are no saving throws - armour is destroyed as easily
as flesh. The actual resulting blast from the weapon varies according to the
distance travelled. Close to, the area is tight, and it grows the further away
it gets.

                                 Blast Radius
                                 Range Of Shot
                        0-10"   10-20"  20-30"  30-40"
Blast Radius             1.5"     2"     2.5"     3"

When used against a vehicle affects d3 individual locations if it hits. Reroll
any duplicate locations. Armour is penetrated randomly, and dice are rolled
dependant upon the targets Armour. Consult the table below.

                                Vehicle Damage
                          Thickness of Targets Armour
                      1-4       5-8     9-11    12-14   15+
Penetration            d6       2d6     3d6     4d6     5d6

When used against buildings, the beamer will automatically damage the target.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
    0-20        20-40               -1     -    d6 as above   Heavy 2"
                                                              Move or Fire
                                                              As above


                      Cyclone Terminator Missile Launcher
This missile launcher fits on top of the Terminator suit, and fires 12 Krak
missiles. They can be fired singly or as a massive salvo.

Special Rules : The cyclone has attitude sensors and gyros, and therefore does
not incur movement penalties. The cyclone system has laser guided missiles. The
laser is controlled by the Terminators left hand and is used to trigger the
missiles. This acts as a targeter, giving them +1 To Hit. They may ignore the
targeter and may fire the missile by sight alone but do not get the +1 To Hit.
The missile Launcher has 12 Krak missiles and the player should record how many
have been fired. This means that once 12 have been fired the weapon is useless.
The firer can fire in the shooting phase with the following Krak missile stats
S8      D10     Sv -6   Blast area - none.

The cyclone can fire a salvo , but they need a minimum of 2 missiles which
gives a burst area of .5" for each missile used in the salvo. The more missiles
fired the larger the blast will be. Strength, damage and saves are normal. If
the terminator is hit, roll 2d6. on an 11 or 12 they must roll on the
Catastrophic Launch Chart.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
   0-20         20-72      +1       +1     8    d10  -6       as above.

                           Catastrophic Launch Chart
        1       Explode - The marine is torn apart, and all models left blow
apart with the appropriate Blast Area. All models are affected under this
template.

        2       Fires at nearest target - All the missiles launch at the
nearest possible target with 90 degrees of the firer.

        3       Fire at most distant target - As above, except the most distant
target is picked within the cyclones range.

        4       Fire Straight Ahead - All missiles fire d6 x 10" directly to
the front of the Cyclone

        5       Missiles Move Randomly - All missiles move 2d6" straight ahead
and explode if there is a target in the missiles path. Otherwise it will
scatter 2d6". It will continue to do this until it leaves the table or hits a
target.

        6       Fire Missiles separately - The remaining missiles fire off 1 at
a time. For each missile, roll for scatter, and the missile strikes the 1st
target within 1" of a direct line in the direction shown. The firing of a
missile will make the gyros move, so a new target is required for each missile.
Once all the missiles have been fired the machine shuts down.


                                 Heavy Bolter

This is basically the same except for the following : Heavy 1" ; Move or Fire ;
Sustained Fire ; Hellfire shell. This last shell makes the difference.

Hellfire shell : This is made from brittle ceramics, and when it hits a target
it shatters, releasing a powerful mutogenic acid that eats away at armour and
flesh in very little time. Hellfire shells must be loaded singly, therefore
there is no sustained fire in the round that this shell is used. It causes
damage on a d6 roll of 2+ on any living target for d6 Wounds. Saving throws for
this are normal and not modified. If the target saves, the acid will hit any
model within 2" of the target. Roll 1d6 for each model within 2" and they are
hit on a 6, which causes 1 W unless they make an armour saving throw.


                                 Heavy Flamer
This is identical to the Hand Flamer except for the following : Vehicles and
similar can be set alight, S 5, D 1, Sv -3, Heavy 2". The template for this is
11" long by 3" at the widest part of the curve of the fireball.


                               Heavy Plasma Gun
This is basically unchanged, except that sustained is now called Low Energy.
Low energy bursts lose their following fire (sustained fire). All other stats
remain the same.

                                Heavy Stub Gun
This remains unchanged.

                                 Heavy Webber
This is identical to the normal webber except that this webber can web vehicles
and similar. Models can still break free as with a webber. Open topped vehicles
with exposed men are still subject to web effects. Vehicles are webbed on the
following chart :
                               Vehicle Web Chart
                      Vehicle speed (last Movement Phase)
                     0-4"       4-8"    8-12"   12-16"  16"+
To Hit               3+          4+      5+       6+    Miss

Anything else rolled for these totals (or miss) means that the web hasn't had
time for the chemicals to bond before the vehicle broke through the strands.
Vehicles that are webbed may try to break free by rolling on the Vehicle escape
chart :
                             Vehicle Escape Chart
        1       Fail - Trapped for the game, cannot break free.
        2-4     Fail - Remains trapped, try next turn
        5       Fail - remains trapped, try next turn. 1 weapon is freed and
can shoot normally in the shooting phase.
        6       Free - The web is destroyed as the vehicle moves forward.


Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
   0-12         12-24                    special              Heavy 2"
                                                              Move or Fire
                                                              2" blast radius
                                                              As above


                                   LasCannon
This remains the same and unchanged.

                                  Multi Melta

This has 1 thing changed from the original. It now does 2d12 damage instead of
4d6, giving it a lower average score.

                               Missile Launcher
This remains the same and can fire any missile. The ones listed here are the
most common.
Krak    S8      D d10   Sv -6   No blast area

Frag    S4      D 1     Sv -1   2" blast area

Blind   2" blast area, no LOS can be drawn through, no Infra Red, No psychic
powers drawn through. Models inside move at 1/2 rate randomly, Any H-H combat
meets in a draw, with no I modifiers. No hits are scored. Roll below for the
blind effects chart :
        1       Cloud remains until the end of the enemies turn before
dispersing.
        2-4     Cloud remains where it is.
         5      Cloud shrinks to half its current radius (to nearest half an
inch).
         6      Cloud moves d6" randomly

Melta   S8      D d6    Sv -4   1" blast area

Plasma  S5      D 1     Sv -2   1.5" blast area. Models which survive are
thrown clear of this Blast area which remains until the end of the round, where
it needs a roll on the following table to determine its function. It remains
until it disperses itself. Models in it take an automatic hit. LOS is blocked
through plasma.
        1       Plasma Ball expands its radius by d6" and disperses at the end
of the turn.
        2-5     Plasma balls radius shrinks by .5"
        6       Plasma ball implodes and disappears immediately.

Anti Plant      2" blast radius. destroys any vegetation in this area.


                                  Multi Laser
Remains unchanged except it loses Following fire for Sustained fire.

                           Shuriken Shrieker Cannon
This cannon is used by Harlequin Death Jesters. It can fire normal shurikens or
shrieker shells, which are hollow and contain a genetic serum. The cannon is
good in a supporting role for attacking harlequins.

Special Rules : With normal ammo, the cannon receives sustained fire. If they
use a Shrieker shell, however, this is lost. The shell only affects living
targets. Roll To Hit as normal, and if the target is wounded and fails an
armour save, the shell releases its serum into the victim. The serum causes the
victim to move 2d6" in the movement phase, but if the number rolled is a 7 or a
double, the shell explodes within the victim. Place a 1" template over the
victim. Anyone under this takes a S3 hit for 1 W. The victim will continue to
stagger until they explode and can do nothing but move. Any unit that has a
member within 2" of the victim must make a Rout test at the beginning of each
movement round. Note that the targets unit must make a test, as normal
coherency is 2", and any other enemy units with a member within 2" are also
affected.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
   0-20         20-40      +1              5    d4   -2       Heavy 2"
                                                              Sustained Fire
                                                              As above


                                Support Weapons

                        D Cannon on anti Grav Platform
This is an Eldar weapon, which wrenches targets between reality and the warp
when it hits them, tearing their atoms apart. It has been heavily changed, and
is now inaccurate. The cannon is mounted on a specially developed platform that
allows its crew of 2 to move it into position quickly.

Special Rules : This weapon can be moved in any direction upto 4", but it
cannot move over difficult terrain or obstacles. It cannot move and fire in the
same turn. It is considered to be a separate target from its crew, and firers
at short range may opt to fire either at the weapon or the crew. Other shots
are randomised between the targets present. Only if both crewmen are killed is
the weapon considered inoperative. The weapon is said to have an Armour of 10
as if it were a vehicle. Rolls to penetrate work as normal, and if the armour
is penetrated, the weapon is destroyed. The crew are then free to act
independently or they can join another guardian squad or take over another
support weapon. The inherent inaccuracy of the D Cannon means it is likely to
hit with either veteran or raw troops. To some extent there is a degree of
randomness when the gun is fired to just exactly what will happen as the weapon
disrupts the fabric of the universe. To fire the weapon at a target follow this
procedure :

        1       Place the 2" burst template over the intended target.
        2       Roll for scatter and move the template d6" that way.
        3       Now roll for scatter again and move the template a further d6"
in the new direction to find out where it really hits.
Targets under the template are automatically hit. Targets on the edge are hit
on 4+. Vehicles under the template are hit on 4+. All targets hit must make an
immediate Distort Test to determine if they survive. Survivors will suffer from
some sort of displacement effect.

                               Distort Test (d6)

        1-4     Destroyed - the target is entirely destroyed.
         5      Displaced - The target is unharmed but needs to roll on the
Displacement test table.
         6      Moved - The target is moved 2d6" in a random direction.
Those that roll a 5 or 6 on this table may still take damage from their
displacement and therefore require a roll on the displacement test table.

                         Displacement Test Table (d6)

        1       Target is moved to a random position on a random table edge.
        2       Target is moved 4d6" randomly.
        3       Target is moved 6d6" randomly.
        4       Target is moved d6" and inverted. If the model is a vehicle,
they end up upside down and cannot fire any weapons from the top of the
vehicle, only side and front mounted weapons. The vehicle cannot move for the
rest of the game. If it is a foot soldier, the model needs to spend their
entire next Movement phase standing up.
        5       Target is moved 2d6" randomly and ends 10m up in the air,
before dropping. When they hit the ground, they take a S10 hit for d6 W with no
saving throw. If the target is a vehicle or part of a building, any models
underneath are hit on 4+ and take the same hit as the target. No saves are
allowed for those being landed on.
        6       Target is moved 2d6" randomly and ends up 10m below ground.
This causes a massive explosion as the atoms warp into one another. Place the

2" burst template over the spot. Anyone under the template take a S6 hit for d6
damage with a -2 Save.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
  0-16         16-32            Special Rules                 2" distort area
                                                              Move or Fire
                                                              As above


                            Rapier Laser Destroyer
This is a mobile anti-tank weapon used by the Imperium. It is a 4 barrelled
laser known as a rapier. It is transported on a tracked platform, where its 2
crewmen control it with a black control box.

Special Rules : The rapier can only move 4", and must have a crewman within 4"
at all times. It can move through difficult terrain at half Movement, and can
cross obstacles less than 6' high with ease. It cannot move and fire in the
same turn. It only has a 45 degree fire arc to its front. If the weapon needs
to be turned to fire on a target, it cannot be fired as it has moved. At short
range the Rapier may be targeted separately from its crew and is given 10
Armour points, as if it were a vehicle. The weapon can be used so long as at
least 1 crewman is alive. If the crew are dead or the Armour is penetrated, the
weapon is made useless.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
  0-18         18-72       +1              9   2d10  -6       Move or fire
                                                              As above


                                  Mole Mortar
This mortar fires rockets and missiles below ground, causing them to erupt from
underneath the targets in a blast of shell and earth.

Special Rules : The torpedo cannot be aimed at any target within 12" of the
firer. The mortar has a crew of 2, but only 1 is needed to fire it. The other
acts as a spotter and may move anywhere over the battlefield, instructing the
firer to shoot at targets they cannot actually see (indirect fire). If the
spotter is killed, indirect fire is impossible. If the gunner is killed, the
spotter can return to the gun and take control of it as a normal gunner. The
weapon follows this procedure To Hit :
        1       Player nominates a Target point - this can be anywhere that can
be seen and doesn't have to be a model. The target must be seen by 1 of the
weapons crew however.
        2       The player rolls d6 and consults the Mole Mortar Accuracy table
listed below and follows what is said for their roll.
        3       To work out damage of anything hit, consult the Mole Mortar
Damage chart listed below.

                          Mole Mortar Accuracy Chart

        1       Off Target - The shell travels randomly to within 2d6" of the
target point. Reroll again on this chart, and if a 1 is rolled again work out a
new target etc.
        2       Airburst - The torpedo erupts from the ground and explodes in
the air in a devastating airburst.
        3-4     Surface Blast - The torpedo erupts from the earth and detonates
as it breaks the surface.
        5       Ground Burst - The torpedo explodes under the target in the top
soil of the crust, muffling its effect.
        6       Subterranean Burst - The torpedo strike rock below the target
when still in the ground and detonates below the surface.

                           Mole Mortar Damage Chart
                     Blast      Strength        Damage  Save
                     Radius      of Hit         Caused  Modifier

        Airburst        3"          3              1      -2
        Surface         2"          4              1      -2
        Ground          1"          4              1      -2
        Subterranean    D3"         3              1      -2

A ground or subterranean burst will leave a crater equivalent in size to the
burst radius of the hit. Any vehicle with 50% or more of the model in this
crater is bought to an immediate halt and must roll a 5+ on a d6 to move.
Tracked vehicles may move on a 4+. Buildings will collapse if they are above
the crater, models in the crater that are not killed when the shell explodes
cannot move in their following movement turn, but must get up. They can shoot
as normal, with normal modifiers.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
  12-24         24-72           See special Rules             Heavy 2"
                                                              Move or Fire
                                                              As Above


                      Scatter Laser on Anti Grav Platform
This is another Eldar support weapon. It incorporates a laser which has 6
barrels. It was originally made for War Walkers and Dreadnoughts. The lasers
can be fired together or separately.

Special Rules : This can only be moved and fired the same as the Eldar D
Cannon. Hits against it are the same as the D Cannon in regards to Damage and
Targeting. The scatter laser may fire upto 6 shots during the shooting phase.
They may be fired at different targets, however, they must be within 6" of the
first target fired at. The firer works out hits and damage for each shot before
going onto the next target. Eldar have the option of replacing the scatter
laser with a Las Cannon or a Heavy Plasma Gun, either way, these weapons may be
moved AND fired in the same turn (includes the scatter laser).

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
   0-20         20-60      +1              6    1    -1       As Above


                                   Tarantula
This is a semi - robotic weapon system that fires twinned guns at a set target.

Special Rules : The tarantula can move a maximum of 4" but not over difficult
terrain and obstacles. A crewman (there are 2) must be within 4" to control the
weapon. It can move and fire in the same turn. It has a 360 degree fire arc. It
is treated as a Rapier system for targeting. Any pair of heavy weapons can be
mounted on a Tarantula but both must be fired at the same target as normal. If
a Hit is scored, both weapons hit, if a miss is rolled, both shots miss. The
profile below is for LasCannons.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
  0-20         20-60                       9   2d6   -6       2 Shots -roll
                                                              once to hit.


                                   Thudd Gun
This hasn't changed much from the original Thudd Gun. The template is still the
same, 4 x 1" burst effects. It can now be targeted in a similar way to the
Rapier system. It has the same movement as a Tarantula, It has 2 men who must
be within 4" with the control box. It cannot move and fire in the same round.
If it is required to move over any distance, it must be towed by a vehicle. The
Thudd gun can fire indirectly. This takes 1 extra round, during which the Thudd
Gun cannot move or fire until the following round. The target point is
indicated in the turn before the Thudd Gun is fired. In the round following the
Thudd Gun may fire so long as they haven't moved or fired in the previous
round.

Sht Range    Lng Range   TH Sht   TH Lng   S    D   Save      Special
   0-12         12-72               -1     6    1    -2       Move or Fire
                                                              Indirect Fire
                                                              4 x1" templates
                                                              As Above


                                   Grenades
I think that Psyk-out grenades can be bought at the normal price, and the rules
haven't been changed in relation to these.

                                   Antiplant
This has the same effects as previously, except it now has a 2" burst Template.


                                     Blind
These are identical in powers to the original, stopping any LOS and psychic
powers being targeted through it. Even scanners, bionic eyes etc. cannot draw
LOS. Shots fired into blind will automatically miss. It now has a 2" burst
Template. Models inside the blind field can stay stationary or move at half
rate randomly. H-H combat always results in a Tie inside a blind field. For
each turn roll d6 on the table below to see where the cloud moves :

        1       Cloud remains to the end of the enemies turn and disappears.
        2-4     Cloud remains where it is.
        5       Cloud shrinks half an inch to a minimum half an inch.
        6       Clouds moves d6" in a random direction.


                                     Choke
This is a non lethal gas that causes choking. The table below shows who's
immune to the effects of this attack and who can be attacked. Sealed units,
vehicles and demonic troops are immune to this attack. The burst template is
1.5" radius. anyone under it must take a choke test. Those that fail will fall
to the floor choking, and they can do nothing until the cloud disperses or
moves away from them. They can be ignored for the purposes of unit coherency
whilst they are affected. At the end of each turn, roll on the blind table
above to see what happens to the cloud. The only difference to this table is
the following :
        5       Cloud shrinks to half its present rate, to a minimum of half an
inch radius.

                                  Choke Test
        Troop Type                              D6 Roll to Choke

        Space Marines, Eldar Aspect Warriors,        No Effect
        Dreadnoughts, Terminators, Enclosed
        Vehicles

        Other Troops including Imperial Guard,          3+
        Scouts, Eldar Guardians, Squats and Orks


                                     Frag
This hasn't changed apart from the following : It now has a -1 save modifier.
It has a different Strength than a Frag Missile.


                                 Hallucenogen
This is similar in effect to normal grenades of this type. The gas disperses
almost immediately. Models that are affected will remain so unless it is
otherwise stated. Unit coherency can be suspended for the troops affected.
Troops hit must take a Hallucenogen test. It has a 1.5" burst Template.

                               Hallucenogen Test
        Troop Type                              D6 roll to Effect

        Space Marines, Eldar aspect Warriors,        No Effect
        Dreadnoughts, Terminators, Enclosed
        Vehicles

        Other Troops including Imperial Guard,          4+
        Scouts, Eldar Guardians, Squats, Orks

Roll 1d10 for those affected and consult the Hallucenogen effects Table.

                          Hallucenogen Effects Table

        1       Your hands are slimy tentacles, and your arms are worms. You
know this is an illusion and try to snap out of it. Roll d6. On a 1-3, roll
again on this chart, on a 4+ the model shrugs of the effects and suffers no
further effects.

        2       Everything speeds up and you move too slow. You are going MAD!
roll 1d6 at the start of each turn. On a 1-3 the model may do nothing that
turn. On a 4+ combats the gas effects and suffers no further ones.

        3       Thousands of tiny spiders drop from the sky, crawling into your
armour. The model falls down screaming and kicking, and can do nothing until
they roll a 6 on a d6 at the beginning of each turn to snap out of the
illusion.

        4       In the nearest patch of cover you see something moving,
dangerously, threateningly. The model may not move but must blast away at the
nearest clump of cover, regardless of what is in it. At the start of each turn
roll a d6. The illusion stops on a 6.

        5       Now is your chance to slip away from the others - you'll be
home in a week. The model drops their weapons and armour and runs for the
nearest border at full speed. The model continues to move until it leaves the
table.

        6       The sky is so big, warm and lovely - wouldn't it be fun to fly,
fly, FLY ! The model drops his weapons and stands flapping their arms rapidly.
The model moves around the table randomly each turn, flapping their arms until
they manage to leave the table.

        7       The enemy is all around you, behind every rock ! Fire, Fire!
its your only chance to live! The model goes completely out of control and
opens fire randomly, screaming about the enemy. During the models own turn, it
is moved randomly, and shoots its weapon in a random direction. Roll to hit the
first model in the desired direction as normal. The model does this for the
rest of the game.

        8       Your fellow troopers are out to get you. They're traitors to
the cause. The model lets rip with their most potent weapon at the nearest
target - friend or foe, moving in such a way that it can do so. It will do this
for the majority of the game, moving to where it can that does not prevent
shooting.

        9       Its all to much - You can't take the strain of it all. The
model breaks down and remains seated, crying and sobbing about the mindless
slaughter, the children, the rations etc. and may do nothing else for the game.

        10      Suddenly everythings clear - you, the enemy your friends, and
its just so funny! The model moves at charge rate in their movement phase
towards the nearest models laughing hysterically and waving their arms. The
model does this until it leaves the table and can do nothing else.


                                    Haywire
These grenades have new effects and no longer affect foot troops or their
equipment (thank GAWD!) but are used to attack vehicles. They have a 1.5" burst
template. Haywire affects the targets listed on the Haywire chart in a random
way for each grenade template that hits the target. Terminators are affected as
they are in Tactical DREADNOUGHT ARMOUR !

                             Haywire Effect Chart

                            Vehicle or Dreadnought

        1-2     No Effect
        3-5     Machine goes out of control in its following turn. While out of
control, no models may fire. It is affected for 1 turn.
         6      Machine goes out of control for 1 turn in the following turn. 1
weapon will fire at the nearest target (friend or foe) whilst the others cannot
shoot at all. It continues to go out of control each round on a d6 roll of 4+.

                    Robots, Spirit Warriors or Terminators

        1-2     No Effect
        3-5     The model is deactivated completely in its following turn. The
model is affected for only 1 turn.
         6      In its following turn, the model moves randomly at normal move
rate. It will shoot the nearest target (friend or Foe). The model continues to
move out of control each turn on a d6 roll of 4+.

GMs can decide whether Haywire can affect other pieces of machinery.


                                     Krak
This is an anti - personnel grenade and remains the same except for the fact
that it no longer has a Burst Template, and must strike a model to have any
effect.


                              Photon Flash Flare
This grenade has a 1.5" burst template. Anything under it must roll on the
Flash Effect Table. Infravision devices and targeters on weapons are destroyed
on the model if they are hit by the flash.

                               Flash Effect (d6)
                    No Effect   Dazzled         Blinded

Unprotected Troops       -         1               2+
Troops with protective  1-3        4-5             6
visors
Troops with Auto senses 1-5        6

Unprotected Troops include Orks and Gretchins
Protected troops include Imperial Guard, Scouts, Eldar, Squats
Troops with Auto senses include Marines, Terminators, Dreadnoughts, Eldar
Aspect Warriors and Enclosed Vehicles.

Other protection is covered in the various equipment and army lists.

Dazzled : Troops who are dazzled are so for 1 round, during which time BS and
WS are 1. They are OK for the turn after they have been dazzled.

Blinded : Blinded troops who wish to move do so randomly and at half rate.
Blinded troops ignore unit coherency, and may not shoot. They have a WS of 1.
Troops that are blinded are automatically blind for 1 full turn. At the start
of the turn after, they may roll d6 to determine how their sight is - on a 1-4
the model remains blind. On a 5+ they can see as normal, and must try to re-
establish unit coherency.

                                    Plasma
This is a field effect. LOS is blocked by a plasma ball, which stays on the
battlefield until it disperses. Shots through Plasma merely feed the ball.
        S5      D1      Sv -2   Area 1.5"
At the start of each turn roll 1d6 and consult the following table :

                               Plasma Ball (D6)

        1       The plasma area extends d6" and disappears at the end of the
turn.
        2-5     The radius shrinks by half an inch.
        6       The Plasma ball shrinks on itself and disappears.


                                      Rad
These have been changed. Rad grenades can be aimed anywhere and are secretly
recorded by the GM. It can be detected by a Rad scanner. A Rad marker is used
to determine the actual area of the grenade, and this is placed face down so
that the opposition have no idea how big a radius the shell has. Targets moving
within the set distance take an automatic hit.

        S d6+d4         D 1     Sv -3   Area : d3"

Once any damage has been worked out, the counter still remains on the
battlefield for the remainder of the game.


                                     Scare
This is a non persistent gas that affects those models without respirators. It
is absorbed quickly through the skin, and only sealed units are a defence
against this attack. The grenade has a 2" template, and anything under this
must roll on the Scare Test chart below.

                               Scare Test Chart

        Troop Type                      D6 Roll to Scare
Space Marines, Eldar Aspect Warriors,       No Effect
Dreadnoughts, Terminators and
Enclosed Vehicles

Scouts, Eldar Guardians, Imperial             2+
Guard, Squats, Orks

Scare gas lasts for 1 round. If the affected models are in cover, they will
remain there unable to fire or move. Unit coherency is ignored for this model.
Those not in cover will run towards the nearest cover away from the enemy - or
the table edge, whichever is the closest. During movement, the models move at
maximum towards the cover and will hide in it if they can. They can do nothing
else until they shake off the grenades effect. This is done by rolling a d6 for
each model at the start of the teams turn. On a 5 or 6, the scare wears off.
Otherwise scare lasts for the whole game.


                                     Smoke
These grenades stop LOS by troops, but doesn't stop psykers using their psionic
powers. It has a 2" burst radius. Movement is the same as in a blind grenade,
unless the troops can see through smoke (see below). At the end of each turn,
roll a d6 and consult the Blind Grenade Cloud Movement table - the effects are
the same for a smoke grenade. The only troops who don't have auto senses or IR
visors that see through smoke are Orks, Tyrranids and Genestealers.


                                    Stasis
These grenades are rare, bulky and cannot be fired from a grenade launcher.
They have a 2" burst radius. The grenade actually causes a time loop within the
burst area, and time distortion outside this. Roll To Hit targets as normal.
Those under the Template are affected automatically. Those on the edge are hit
on a 4+. Those affected remain stationary and cannot fire, use psychic powers
or move for the duration of the field effect. Those models outside this 2" are
also affected, however, and ANY model within 4" radius of the impact centre -
apart from those in the stasis loop - are affected in the following way : They
move at 1/2 rate and fire and use psionics only every 2nd turn. This continues
until they are outside the area of effect of the grenade. At the end of each
turn Roll 1d6 and consult the Stasis Loop chart below. H-H combat is also
affected in the distort loop, and it to can only be done every 2nd round.
Anything entering into the loop is affected.

                               Stasis Loop Chart (D6)

        1-2     The field remains in place until the end of the turn when it
disperses with no further effect.
        3-6     The field remains in place.


                                  Tanglefoot
This grenade consists of a small magno - gravitic reactor that essentially
slows down those that are hit by it. The tanglefoot creates a field at just
above ground level, that forces any model within 3" to move at half rate. Other
abilities are not affected. Vehicles entering a tanglefoot area are affected.
Every inch covered counts as 2" from the vehicles move when inside the field.
When the vehicle leaves the field, roll d6 and consult the table below :

                          Vehicle in Tanglefoot (D6)

        1       Completes remaining move straight forward.
        2       Turns 45 degrees left and completes remaining move in a
straight line.
        3       Turns 45 degrees right and completes remaining move in a
straight line.
        4+      No effect - move as normal.


                                     Toxin
This is highly poisonous and affects those that are living who are not in
sealed suits. It has a 1.5" burst area, and any model under it must roll on the
Toxin Effect table. Those that are affected will die.

                              Toxin Effect Table

Troop Type                              D6 Roll to Kill

Space Marines, Eldar Aspect Warriors,       No effect
Dreadnoughts, Terminators, Tyrranids,
Genestealers, Enclosed Vehicles

Scouts, Eldar Guardians, Squats,              3+
Imperial Guard

Orks and Gretchins                            2+
+any other unprotected troops

After this, roll on the Blind Cloud Movement Table, as these results are the
same for the Toxin Cloud.


                                     Virus
This has a 2" burst area. Those under this are affected as per the Virus Effect
Chart. Virus is just that - a killing strain of bacteria that enters the body
and slays the victim by means of rapid mutation of the cells, which rupture and
break down to nothing. When a model falls victim to a virus grenade, do not
remove it. Virus can mutate and spread to other troops, so lay any models
affected down. Roll 1d6 to determine how many inches the virus spreads. Troops
inside this new radius are affected on a 4+ if they are vulnerable. Keep doing
this for every model that dies (rolling d6" radius) until there are no more
models within the area that are possible targets, after which the virus changes
into a harmless form and has no further effect.

                              Virus Effect Chart

Troop Type                              Roll d6 To Kill

Space Marines, Eldar Aspect Warriors,
Dreadnoughts, Enclosed vehicles,             No Effect
Terminators, Tyrranids, Genestealers

All other troops                               3+


                                    Vortex
This is another rare weapon of mass destruction. It cannot be fired from a
grenade launcher. When it explodes, it creates a contained small black hole,
that destroys all forms of matter. It has a 1.5" burst template and anything
under it is destroyed - no saving throw kiddies! Vortex do, however, work
rather unpredictably when they are used. Vortex fields cannot be shot through,
nor can psychics use their powers through it. The field remains in place until
it disperses. Anything it touches - even on the edges - is destroyed
automatically. Roll d10 for the movement at the end of each round and consult
the Vortex Chart. When a vortex hits a vehicle, the rules differ slightly. Work
out hits on vehicles as follows :
        If the centre of the vortex template passes over ANY part of the model,

the vehicle is totally destroyed. It is also destroyed if the vortex covers 50%
of the vehicle or more.
        If neither of these apply, roll 2d6 on the target grid for the vehicle
along the bottom sighting line. This shows how far the Vortex has penetrated
into the vehicle. If the vortex is penetrating from the front, all areas in the
front are hit. If from the rear, all areas in the rear are hit. If from the
side, all areas 1 either side of the number rolled are hit (ie: a 6 was rolled
on 2d6, areas 5 through 7 are hit by the field). All areas hit are destroyed as
if a 6 had been rolled on the damage chart for that area.

                               Vortex Chart D10

        1-3     Vortex vanishes with no further effect

        4-6     Vortex remains unchanged

         7      The vortex expands by .5" radius.

         8      The vortex moves d6" randomly, everything it touches is
destroyed as it passes over or through it.

         9      The vortex pulses then splits into 2! place another marker on
the table and reroll for both vortices on this chart again

         10     The vortex expands to a radius of 3", destroying all it
touches. It then vanishes and has no further effect.


Notes for Harlequin Players : You may notice that the Grenades section does not
mention our friendly little Eldar Warriors in any of its sub Tables (ie : Virus
or Toxin). This pissed me off when I played, as I kept getting the shit kicked
out of me by these very 2 grenade attacks. So, I went to my local GW
(Nottingham) and initiated a concentrated attack on the Knob Head behind the
counter, asking why the rules on my most expensive men were only half written
and didn't cover specifics. The reply to my interrogation was this :
        " For all intents and purposes, a Harlequin with both Carapace Armour
(Death Jesters) and a mask is the same as a space Marine. Those with Holo Suits
and a mask are seen as a sealed unit and are regarded as being Eldar Aspect
Warriors when it comes to getting grenades shoved down their throat".
THEREFORE - when you see the Aspect Warrior saves for the grenade types, your
Harlequins are also entitled to that particular save - and don't let anyone
else tell you otherwise.


                                 Force Weapons

        These weapons remain the same as listed and haven't been significantly
changed from any of the army and weapons lists out already. Those covered in
the Manual are :

Force Axe       Force Rod       Force Sword     Nemesis Weapon

Eldar Warlock Witch Blade


Right - that's it. Good luck when playing WH40, and those who try these new
rules and weapons will find it adds an extra dimension to their Tabletop
Wargaming - Oh yeah, another thing, when playing against little 10-13 year old
MEGS who inundate your local GW (fucking thousands in the Nottingham branch
listening to Bryan bloody Adams and other Glammy shite), and you're playing a
large pointage game, buy a NAVIGATOR from the original manual - only a basic
one, then ask where theirs is. If the reply is "what Navigator - I don't have
one", tell them they lose, because HOW THE HELL CAN THEY NAVIGATE TO GET TO THE
PLANET WITHOUT A NAVIGATOR TO SEE THE ASTROMONICAN? And don't take any of this
"It was close to my home base" or "He was killed in an earlier skirmish"
bullshit - you paid for one to transport you, and they didn't. ERGO : either
they never turned up - in which case you win - or they're floating around the
warp somewhere, ready to change to Chaos - therefore you win.

end.
