
                      -------------------------------
                      NEW TV CHANNEL IN AMIGA MAYHEM
                     ------------------------------- 

Amiga users could be the cause of an almighty mess which threatens the
new terrestial TV broadcast station,Channel 5.
   Owing to a phenomenon known as "Reverse Interference" the airwaves
could be filled with rogue broadcasts of Amiga display screens, spoiling
viewers reception of the new TV channel.
Since Channel 5 is sheduled to transmit on Channel 37, broadcasters are
already well aware of the problem of having to retune domestic video
equipment to other frequencies.
This excercise alone is expected to cost at least £100 million.
  Applicants for the Channel 5 licence have been told by the Independant
Television Commission that the franchise winner must pay for this
retuning excercise, or it won't get the right to broadcast.
But no-one seems to have forecast the potential chaos that reverse
interference may cause.
  Reverse interference is likely to be caused by video games and home
computer systems such as the Amiga.
Many owners use their domestic television sets as the display for their
system,and to avoid constant plugging and unplugging a splitter is
commonly used.
  Splitters pass signals in both directions-so not only does the signal
pass into the tv set it also travels up to the outdoor aerial and
actually transmits from there.
The effect of this has been more or less inconsequential in the
past,due to the different frequencies used for broadcast, but Channel
5's channel 37 allocation means that rooftop aerials will now start
recieving these "rogue" signals.
Tests conducted independently have shown these transmissions can carry
for hundreds of metres.
  Affected viewers will have no choice but to locate the guilty
transmitter and request the culprit to disconnect their splitter,a
hapless task at best.
  The favourites to win the Channel 5 licence,UKTV Developments,have
already promised that they will cure the problem if it arises,but they
have not said how they will do so.
Expect it to cost someone a lot of money!

