DID YOU KNOW...

* That Ally Babba won the 2142 championships without having to fire a single
weapon. When the game began he immediately landed his contraption and covered it
with a green tarpaulin cleverly shaped as a giant cactus. All he then had to do
was wait it out until the other pilots had destroyed each other, before
re-emerging from his cunning hideaway as the winner! The use of green tarpaulin
cleverly shaped as a giant cactus was subsequently banned.


DID YOU KNOW...

* That the longest game in Wingnuts history was finally abandoned after twelve
days of continuous action, when both pilots starved to death during a lowlevel
dogfight. This was the first and last instance of death by starvation within the
arena, and led directly to the inclusion of a landing strip for tired wingnuts
where free spamburgers are always available.


DID YOU KNOW...

* That in the 20th edition of "Wingnuts famous banned weaponry", there is an
item on tactical nuclear warheads. Apparently in the end season game of 2150, a
desperate wingnut called Stanley Spudley (infamous at the time for having never
survived a single fight) decided to win the contest once and for all by
strapping a nuclear warhead to the bottom of his contraption.

Unfortunately for him, and in true Spudley Style, he was shot out of the air
within the first few seconds of the game and never got the chance to activate
his deadly device. The crash that followed was so terrible it became embedded in
Wingnuts history as "The Spudley Splash", an infamous reference still used today
by commentators describing similar spectacular crashes.

Spudley was killed instantly in the crash, the collision so fierce that his
plane was smashed into pieces of debris no bigger than a diced carrot. The only
thing that survived was the warhead itself, lying unscathed amongst the remnants
of his ruined contraption.

It is ironic that even in death Spudley was robbed of the immortal fame he so
desperately longed for, the first and last man to attempt nuclear warfare within
the arena. Instead he is a footnote in the endless editions of "Spectacular
Crashes", remembered only for his inherent skill at failure and for the hallowed
phrase of pain "The Spudley Splash". Stanley Spudley, we salute you.


DID YOU KNOW...

* That the average combat life expectancy of a rookie wingnut is 42 seconds. And
that"s including lunch breaks.


DID YOU KNOW...

* That before automated medical units were introduced, wingnuts had to rely on
the SAS (Special Air Surgeons) to patch up their wounds during a game. To
request medical help a wounded pilot had to wave a white flag over his head to
alert the arena officials (a practice that became mistakenly synonymous with the
sign of surrender). A special air surgeon would then be despatched, skydiving
into the arena from above and hopefully "splashing" down onto the wingnut"s
cockpit. Frontline combat surgery could then take place to save the wingnut"s
life.

This legendary squad of flying doctors became obsolete however with the arrival
of medical units, which were cheaper and safer than their surgeon counterparts.
Medical units didn"t kill their intended patients by landing on their heads, or
stall a plane by getting shredded up in the propeller. And besides, the docs
were becoming more famous than the wingnuts themselves, so of course, in the
end, they had to go...


DID YOU KNOW...

* That a recent game of Wingnuts had to be stopped prematurely due to a pitch
invasion by infuriated fans of the King. The game in question had been a rather
vengeful affair, with the other pilots attempting to gang up on the King due to
his previous unstoppable successes. Angered by this blasphemous injustice, two
thousand fanatics managed to smash their way onto the arena floor from their
spectator stadium below. They then proceeded to lynch every wingnut that was
unfortunate enough to crash amongst the frenzied mob, refusing to vacate the
area even under the onslaught of lowlevel strafing runs and acid-bomb raids from
the surviving pilots above. The King, as it happened, had almost won the game
anyway when it was stopped by panicking officials. He was later given a twelve
month ban from the sport due to the unruly behaviour of his followers, a ban
which he is still serving and which has made him a recluse in his twenty four
billion mansion Disgraceland, situated in the Edwood Hills.


DID YOU KNOW...

* That in the early days of the sport pilots began the game on the ground, and
had to sprint to their contraptions before they could take off. Unfortunately
what usually occurred was a no-holds-barred melee between the grounded wingnuts,
most of them being knocked out of the game before they had even taken to the
air.

This absurd situation finally came to a head when three hundred professional
hockey-wrestlers defected from their own ailing sport and entered the fast
growing game of Wingnuts, all of them realising that they could make vast
amounts of doshmarks in this new flying game without ever having to fly.

Of course the sprintstart system was abandoned soon afterwards, and replaced
with a more practical system that made it illegal for wingnuts to leave their
own cockpits. As for the wrestlers, well most of them gained employment as
bouncers in the infamous pilots" tavern, The Sozzled Mariner, the descendants of
which can still be found working there today.


DID YOU KNOW...

* That before the invention of cloning technology (frostytech), most wingnuts
who survived the first 42 seconds of action could expect to live for three games
before they bought it. The obvious problem with this was that the fans of the
sport were unable to support their favourite pilots for very long (or even
decide who their favourite pilots were), and had to buy expensive new fan-strips
every few weeks.

The other problem of course was actually finding people stupid enough to compete
in the sport against these odds. In the early days wingnuts tended to be bitter
life-sentence prisoners or desperate citizens who wanted to go out with a bang.
These times have become known to Holy Doobies historians as the "nonsense
years", with boring games of frenzied psychopaths endlessly trying to escape
from the arena in their hijacked contraptions (failing of course to understand
the basic implications of wraparound teleport walls), and short-sighted grannies
viciously blowing up innocent cactii before flying into unnoticed
mountain-sides.

It can truly be said that the introduction of cloning technology breathed life
back into the sport.


DID YOU KNOW...

* That in the 34th edition of "Wingnuts famous banned weaponry", there is an
item on household birdseed. It transpires that in 2134 a cunning wingnut called
Vlad Tepid coated his entire contraption with a thick layer of glue and
birdseed, with the single intention of attracting any pigeons that were released
into the arena.

Initially his plan worked and he managed to lure in all three pigeons that were
released. Unfortunately he also managed to attract a flock of migrating
Vallopian Mongeese who happened to be flying by at the time, and went down
screaming in a ball of sticky birdseed and feathers. He survived the crash but
retired from the sport a week later, suffering (allegedly) from Repetitive Beak
Injury.
