
   11   8888
  111  88  88
   11   8888
   11  88  88
  1111  8888

persons must be
18 feet or over



                                W I N G N U T S

                                       -

(A beginners guide* to the chortling comic capers of the Wingnuts multiverse...)



* For further reading see;
  > 'How to bake your own planetary muffin', by Delroy Price.
  > Reference guide 308A - 'Idiots, morons and Betelguesians.'

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                C O N T E N T S


CHAPTER ONE: INTRO
        What`s this Wingnuts lark then?

CHAPTER TWO: FLYING
        Navigating the arena and flying your contraption.

CHAPTER THREE: COMBAT
        Using your weapons/damage to your contraption.

CHAPTER FOUR: THE WINGNUTS
        Choosing your pilot/important stats.

CHAPTER FIVE: THE CONTRAPTIONS
        Choosing your contraption/important stats.

CHAPTER SIX: THE ACNE ARMOURY
        Descriptions of all available hardware.

CHAPTER SEVEN: ARENA GAMES
        Games you can expect to compete in.

CHAPTER EIGHT: THE JIMBOB FLYING CIRCUS
        Playing tips for novice pilots.


THE WINGNUTS

Game Design/Creative Director .. Colin Philpott
Programming .................... Paul Glover
Graphics & Animation ........... Evan Pitman
3D Shapes ...................... Colin Philpott

Manual Author .................. Colin Philpott
ASCIIfied by ................... Paul Glover


Copyright (c) 1997 The Skunkworks

E-mail: skunkworks@anakin1.demon.co.uk
WWW:    http://www.anakin1.demon.co.uk/skunkworks

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  CHAPTER ONE
                                       -
                                    'INTRO'

 'A quick nosy through Time', excerpts from an article by Stephen J. Dawkings.


                                    PART 1:0
                          'How did we get here Bert?'

INSTRUCTIONS

1) First, take 3000 dogotons of Prime Virgin Planet. Sprinkle liberally with a
   little atmosphere (oxygen, hydrogen, vinegar), then sprinkle vigorously into
   8 cosmic pints of water until you have your primordial soup. Bake slowly in a
   solar oven for approximately 80 million years. Leave to cool.

2) Next, cover your planetary muffin with a creamy topping of Raw Colonists.
   Saturate with fat then simmer gently for 20 years over the flames of civil
   war (alternatively you can frizzle it in a nuclearwave oven for 2 minutes).
   Once you have cooked it thoroughly, you are ready to add the sauce.

3) Sauce mix. For this you will need the following ingredients; 1 race of
   Enlightened Aliens (preferably non-Betleguesians), 2 dogotons of Enlightened
   Alien Magic Toadstools (EAMT's), 1 cosmic pint of water. Crush the EAMT's
   into the cosmic pint of water and slowly bring to the boil, stirring
   continuously until it has reached the consistency of yak's milk.

4) Add the psychedelic sauce to your planetary muffin and slowly reduce the
   heat of civil war. Leave to soak. Allow 30 years to age, and viola!



                                    PART 2:0
                       "What's this Wingnuts lark then?"

'Holy Doobie' is a small, insignificant planet that was created in a similar
manner to that which I have described in part one of this article. Ravaged by
years of civil war then thrown into an ice age of peace by the timely
intervention of Enlightened Aliens, this is a planet which has seen Extreme
Rapid Change. Looking closely at its eccentric population, with their long
culture of oldearth cartoon reruns and their daily water supply of psychedelic
sauce, it is perhaps no wonder that a marvel such as Wingnuts should begin life
here.

So what is Wingnuts? Well, bluntly stated, Wingnuts is the most popular
combative sport watched and played on the planet of Holy Doobie. Each week
millions of fanatical fans tune in to watch as the six pilots are strapped into
their heavily armed contraptions, cheering thunderously as they take off into
the arena and fly their dance of homicidal death. Their objective is brutally
straightforward - destroy the opposition and remain the last pilot in the air.



                                    PART 3:0
                              "So how's it work?"

The aerial arena in which the game is played is enclosed within an active
particle field, which works as a wraparound teleporter. In practice this means
that if a pilot flies through one edge of the arena, he will emerge from the
opposite edge that was directly behind him.* Any bullets, missiles or other such
weapons that are in pursuit are unable to pass through these walls, so
tactically they can be very useful during the course of a game.

The ground level has a number of hills and obstacles in which ground level
dog-fights are made possible and embarrassing cacti-collisions are common. The
ground also has a small airstrip (positioned on top of a flattened mesa) from
which repairs are always available (with the exception of lunchtimes).


* For further reading see;
  > 'Hyper-particle physics and the processes of accelerated energy inside
    quantum G-force merry-go-rounds.' By Delroy Price.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  CHAPTER TWO
                                       -
                                    'FLYING'


FLIGHT

Each contraption in the game flies in one of two distinct styles: normal, which
is the same as the forward flight mode of any standard plane, and hover, which
is similar to that of a helicopter. Normal flight is easy and intuitive to
learn, and can be grasped quickly by novice pilots of all levels. Hover is a
more complex affair and should be avoided by beginners until they have practised
it thoroughly.

Remember - your flying skills are what make the difference between shooting down
opponents and getting shot down yourself. Learn them well.


SPEED

Speed in the game is rated on a scale from 0 (engines off) to 8 (maximum
possible speed). However each contraption has its own top speed rating, some
being slower than others, and you may find that the contraption you are flying
in cannot reach the maximum speed of 8.

Your current speed is shown using the speed icon, which will pop up whenever you
increase or decrease the throttle (see Game Controls Manual), and disappear once
you have finished adjusting your speed. Remember that you will be unable to
increase your speed above the contraptions top speed rating.


STALLING

Contraptions that use the normal flight method (i.e. fly like a normal plane)
can sometimes stall if you attempt a manoeuvre at too low a speed. Remember to
keep this in mind when flying within the arena, as stalling at low altitudes can
sometimes prove lethal.

Contraptions that use the hover flight method cannot stall, as they do not rely
on forward motion for lift.


LANDING

The landing-strip acts as a sort of pit-stop during the game, and landing on it
will repair any damage that your contraption may have sustained (see Damage in
the Combat Chapter).

Touching down safely on the landing-strip will require practice and skill, and
can be very dangerous for the inexperienced pilot to try. Be sure to check out
your fully- inclusive cloning policy before attempting it.

The first thing to do when attempting a landing is to correctly line up your
approach with the landing strip. The easiest method is to come in at a distance,
as this will give you the maximum amount of time for course alterations. Coming
in straight is absolutely crucial. When you are close to the landing strip, aim
the nose down slightly towards it, cut your speed to 2 or less, and start
praying to the deities of your own choice. If you are lucky you will be given a
'landed safely' message. Cut your remaining speed and switch your engines off as
fast as possible before you roll off the edge of the mesa. Touchdown!


ROUGH LANDING

It is also possible to land on the ground of the arena, and this is much easier
than attempting the landing-strip (although you will gain no repairs from doing
so).

Make sure not to drop the nose too much, keep your speed at 2 or less, and
landing should occur without difficulties.

Note that hitting the ground at speed 0 (engines off) will almost always result
in a crash.


TAKING OFF

For hover contraptions this is a simple task. Simply switch on your engine,
apply thrust, and you are away.

For normal contraptions, switch on your engine, throttle up to speed 4 then pull
the nose up after a few seconds. You should then take to the air successfully.

Note that most contraptions require a certain speed before they can lift off. If
you cannot reach this speed, you cannot take off.


THE RADAR

This device is shown on the top left of your screen during a game, and shows the
positions of your opponents relative to you in the arena. The display uses a
trapped layer of electrically charged oil to depict the other contraptions as
coloured blobs (the same as their real colour schemes), with a line drawn on
them to show whether they are above or below your present altitude.

The radar device works at two ranges: long range and short range. By default it
is always set on long range, which is the same radius as the arena itself. The
small circle found in the middle of the radar represents the short range; once a
blob moves into this circle the radar will switch to short range, giving you a
more detailed representation of your immediate area. Likewise, as soon as a blob
leaves short range, the radar will revert back again to the long range scale.

The radar is a useful way of keeping track of the other pilots, and is
especially good at telling you when an opponent is on your tail. Remember to
check it on a regular basis. Note that in conjunction with this, your pilot
itself will always turn his head during the game to face the nearest
contraption, giving you a clear indication of what direction they are in.


GAME POINTS

Your points score for the current game are given as a number below the radar
device. Each time you score points you will also be given a points table showing
how many points each pilot has accumulated so far, and therefore who is winning.

Points are gained in the following ways.

Destroying a contraption ....... + 5
Shooting a dropin .............. + 2
Shooting a pigeon .............. + 5
Manual landing (landing-strip) . + 3
Wounding a pilot ............... + 2
Killing a pilot ................ + 5
Last contraption in game ....... + 10

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 CHAPTER THREE
                                       -
                                    'COMBAT'


GUNS

As standard each contraption is fitted with two high-velocity rapid fire
cannons, which use armour piercing shells of depleted uranium for ammunition.
These are your bread and butter weapons; they will never run out of ammo during
a game and are devastating at short ranges.

Guns can be jammed due to some of the other weapons in the game. If you are
unfortunate enough to experience jammed guns, keep your cool and remember
that they will return to normal in a short while.


MISSILES

When you select a missile as a weapon (see the Game Controls Manual) your gun
sight will change to a diamond shaped missile sight, and a targeting box will
appear. This targeting box will select the closest contraption that is in front
of you as a target (if there is one), and will follow it around the screen as it
moves.

To launch a missile at a selected target you first need to achieve lock-on. You
do this by aligning your missile sight with the targeting box for a few seconds,
giving it enough time to achieve a solid lock-on. At this point your missile
sight will change to a skull, informing you that you are locked-on and ready to
launch the missile. Fire now before you lose the lock-on and you will see the
missile fly off towards the target. Note that you can have only one missile in
flight at any given time, so will have to wait for your current missile to
explode before firing another.

Missiles are most lethal when fired from close range, as this gives the target
(i.e. the victim) little time to attempt evasive tactics. However it is
extremely difficult to achieve a lock-on when this close to a target and so most
pilots launch missiles while still at long range distances.


DECOYS AND EVASIVE TACTICS

When an enemy pilot is attempting to lock onto you with his missile sight you
will hear a warning bleeping sound. Evasive manoeuvres can sometimes throw them
off, since they are attempting to align their targeting box on you for several
seconds. Don't make it easy for them - throw your contraption about as much as
possible.

When a missile is launched at you the warning bleep will increase in pitch,
informing you of the serious trouble you are now in. From this point you have
three choices.

Your best option is to start dropping decoys from the back of your contraption
in the hope that the missile will go for one of these instead. Any missile that
passes close enough to a decoy has a chance of changing course and flying
towards it instead; it will then detonate harmlessly as soon as it reaches the
decoy. This means however that launching decoys behind you when a missile is
coming in head-on will often not work: the missile will hit you before it even
gets close to a decoy. Always make sure to launch your decoys so that they are
between you and the missile.

Another choice is to head directly for the closest edge of the arena. Missiles
cannot pass through the teleport walls and so will explode against them on
contact. At times however you will find that after teleporting through to the
other side of the arena, the missile has been able to swing away from the wall
and is now heading for your new position. This is a difficult situation. Chances
are it will run out of fuel before reaching you, but you can never be certain.

Your final option is to start throwing your contraption about in the hope that
the missile will miss you on it's first pass and run out of fuel before it can
swing round again for another try (generally a missile has enough fuel for 30
seconds of flight). This is an extremely difficult tactic to pull off, but it
can be done. A popular addition to this tactic is kissing dirt (flying a few
feet above the ground). While you are at this altitude any missile coming in
from above will often come in too sharply and hit the ground while trying to
level off, leaving you in the clear.

Missiles will detonate as soon as they hit any solid object. This includes
ground objects such as hills and the arena teleport walls themselves. A missile
does not need to hit a target in order to detonate - it may detonate in close
proximity of the target and cause almost as much damage.


LASERS

Lasers work in a similar way to missiles, in that you must achieve a lock-on
with your target before you can fire the weapon. If successful you will see the
target being hit with a laser beam and then a red flare appearing momentarily
around him. Each laser has a unique and powerful effect on the target, even
though sometimes these effects will not be outwardly apparent.


KILLS

Each time you knock out an opponent's contraption you will be given a kill,
represented during the game by a small wing symbol beside your radar. Amassing 5
kills will give you a lightning symbol, 10 kills a skull symbol. Once you have
gained a row of 3 skulls (30 kills) your pilot will be awarded a bonus onto his
stats in recognition of his experience. The skulls will then be cleared from the
screen so that you can begin another level of advancement.


DAMAGE:  TOUGHNESS AND HANDLING LOSS

Damage inflicted on contraptions will cause a reduction in their toughness
scores (see Contraption Chapter), the amount of loss depending on the weapon
used and the accuracy of the hit. A contraption that loses all of it's toughness
points becomes a wreck, and will begin diving towards the ground out of control.
You may attempt to fight the controls and force a crash landing, but this can
sometimes be impossible, especially if you have lost all handling (see below).

Another result of damage is that a contraption's handling score (see the
Contraptions Chapter) is gradually reduced, therefore causing it to become less
stable in flight. A contraption that loses all of it's handling points is almost
uncontrollable, and the pilot will find it difficult to maintain any form of
normal flight. Landing in this condition will take a high degree of skill (and
luck).

When firing your guns at a target you will occasionally notice your shots
resulting in a large explosion. This means that you have caused the target
serious damage, and have reduced it's toughness and handling score by a sizeable
amount. You may have even knocked out one of his weapon systems.

When you hit a target with an explosive weapon (missile, rockets etc.) you may
sometimes see pieces of debris falling away from the contraption. This also
indicates that serious damage has been caused, and that one or more of his
weapons may have been destroyed. The more debris there is, the more damage you
have caused.

When your own contraption is hit by a missile the screen will momentarily flash
yellow. You will also be informed of any weapons that you have lost.


REPAIRS

The only way to regain lost handling and toughness points is through the use of
a repair unit (see the Armoury Chapter) or by landing on the landing-strip and
seeking repairs there. However your damaged weapons and other systems will still
remain inactive for the duration of the current game. These cannot be repaired.

When you successfully touch down on the landing-strip you will see a timer
appearing on the screen, giving in seconds how long it will take to fully
restore your contraption's handling and toughness. Points will be restored for
each second that passes, and once the timer has reached 0 you will be fully
repaired. Note that you can take off at any time during this count-down,
although not all of your damage will have been repaired.

Once the current game is over all damage will be automatically repaired.


ENGINE FAILURE

This can occur if your contraption is wrecked or you are hit by a needle
missile. Your only option is to hope that the engines start again before you hit
the ground. Continue trying to apply thrust. If your engines restart you will
then increase speed and can attempt landing or normal flight.


PILOT WOUNDS

Sometimes when your contraption sustains damage your pilot can be wounded as
well. All pilots have a toughness score similar to contraptions (see The
Wingnuts Chapter), which is gradually reduced as the pilot takes damage.

A pilot will become critical if he sustains too many wounds. Once you are in
this condition the screen will begin to pulse red every few moments as the pilot
slips in and out of consciousness. Any more wounds after this (i.e. 0 toughness)
results in immediate death.

The only way to patch up a wounded pilot is by using a medical unit during the
game. If your pilot dies during a game, a clone will be revived for the next
one. However this will cost you valuable points if you are playing in a league
game.


BLACKOUTS

Certain weapons can cause temporary blindness or unconsciousness. When this
happens the screen will begin to pulse black. In these situations all you can do
is attempt to level off and hope the effects wear off soon.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  CHAPTER FOUR
                                       -
                                 'THE WINGNUTS'


WINGNUTS

The pilots are what lend the sport of Wingnuts it's name, for they themselves
are called wingnuts, and they are most certainly the oddest people on the planet
(other than vice president Rodders of course). There are 6 pilots for the player
to choose from, these being the highest rising wingnuts of the current season.


WINGNUT STATS

Each wingnut has 4 important statistics that the player should take account of :
Pilot Skill, Pilot Toughness, Hotwiring and Fluke.

Pilot skill is similar to the handling score of contraptions (see Contraptions
Chapter). It determines how good the wingnut is at flying, and during a game is
added to the handling score of the contraption he is flying in to determine it's
overall stability. As a contraption is damaged and becomes less stable the
pilot's skill may be the only thing that keeps it in the air. This score is
important when flying contraptions with low handling scores, and less so for
those that are more manoeuvrable.

Pilot toughness is similar to the toughness score of contraptions (see
Contraptions Chapter), and works in the same way. A wingnut with 0 toughness is
dead. This score also determines how long you stay unconscious when you fly into
snooze deploys, and how long you stay sick when hit by fear sonics (see the Acne
Armoury Chapter).

Hotwiring is a measure of a wingnuts mechanical aptitude, and determines how
long it takes him to get the guns working again when they jam, and the engines
restarted when they are knocked out by needle missiles.

Fluke is an indication of how lucky the wingnut generally is. A high fluke score
can increase the chances of decoys attracting missiles. It can also cause
drop-ins and pigeons (see The Armoury Chapter) to favour the lucky wingnut, so
that they often emerge into the arena closer to him than anyone else.


SKILL ADVANCEMENT

Every time a wingnut amasses 30 kills he is allowed to increase a few skills of
his own choice. This represents the valuable experience that he has gained
within the game.


FAME RATING

As your wingnut becomes more successful in the sport his fame and popularity
with the fans will begin to rise.

Fame is gained in a number of ways, the easiest methods being to accumulate
kills and game victories. In the Championships you gain fame through promotion,
winning divisions and the trophy itself. In the Cup you gain in popularity by
progressing to the final three rounds, and of course by winning the title. You
can also make a name for yourself by surviving in the Grudge Title for as long
as possible, and an even bigger name for yourself by winning it.

The Fame ratings are as follows, read as two columns with the highest rating
being last.

Unknown Ruffian                        Notorious Braggart
Rising Cad                             Infamous Scoundrel
Popular Wretch                         Legendary Vagabond
Cult Villain                           Immortal Demi-God


CLONES

Before each arena game is played an identical clone of each wingnut is grown and
preserved in a cryogenic tank of frozen syrup. If the pilot should die during
the game his clone is defrosted and continues on in his place. However valuable
league points will be deducted from the player's score as a result of this.

Players are free to chose one of 6 wingnuts to play before each game.


DICKY DASTARDLY

A man of striking cunning and malice, he has suffered a decline in popularity
this year due to the publicity of his alleged pigeon fetish.


DELICIOUS DEVINE

Black leather, blonde hair, and a sharp edged tongue that can cut a grown man in
half...


DAN NAPALM

Yes indeed, this is the same pilot who emerged out of the Peelo Jungles two
decades after the end of the civil war, and then tried to start his own. Given
the choice of 30 years of mindless violence in a state penitentiary* or 30 years
of mindless violence in the Wingnuts arena, he chose the latter. Odd that.

* 'Rodders Institute for the Morally Challenged'.


SMUTLY

Described quite eloquently in last months Rolling Bone as 'half dog, half
idiot.'


MAVIS THE MARTIAN

This fiery wingnut gained her name not because she was from Mars, but because of
a bad plastic surgery job back in '58.


SANTIAGO STEELE

The love of the lasses, clad in a dinner jacket and an iron jaw, this wingnut is
said to have a smile that can blind a lady at a thousand paces.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  CHAPTER FIVE
                                       -
                               'THE CONTRAPTIONS'


CONTRAPTION STATS

The contraptions in the game are rated by 2 important statistics: Handling and
Toughness.

Handling is a measure of how stable and manoeuvrable a contraption is in flight.
A contraption with a low handling score will quickly become unstable through
sustained damage, although a good pilot skill can counteract this to a certain
extent.

Toughness is an indication of how much damage the contraption can take before if
becomes a wreck. Once the toughness score is reduced to 0 the contraption will
plummet to the ground.


STANDARD ARMAMENTS

All contraptions are armed with a number of basic weapons which are
automatically fitted (free of charge) before each game.

2 Guns
3 Impaler missiles
8 rockets
6 missile decoys


Players are free to choose one of 6 aircraft to fly in before each game. Note
that each contraption is unique in how it flies and handles in the air.


THE FLASH

This is propelled by 8 rocket tubes fixed to the rear. Each tube is activated by
the pilot in turn, and burns for 30 seconds. It is a plane of high speed and
good handling, but due to its odd form of propulsion it requires a smart pilot
to fly, one who knows when to fire a rocket tube or when to glide.

FLASH TUBES - These are the rockets from which the Flash gains it's propulsion.
Once a wingnut has used all of his 8 flash tubes he has no other way to power
his craft. He can remedy this problem by landing on the landing-strip and
picking up more.


THE RED MAX

A prop driven monoplane based on oldearth World War One designs. A good average
all-rounder, and ideal for novices.


THE FLAPPER

This odd craft resembles a vintage car with large flapping wings which propel it
through the air. Its average handling and toughness scores make it a good choice
for novices.


THE HOPPER CHOPPER

This is a bizarre form of helicopter which actually uses a huge 'umbrella' that
moves up and down to provide lift.


THE ADAMSKI

A UFO shaped contraption based on secret military technology, which some say was
gained from a crashed weather balloon some years ago on earth.


THE BLIMP MOBILE

A small, fairly fast blimp. The pilot is slung underneath the balloon in a
heavily armoured basket (well that's what he's told anyway...)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                  CHAPTER SIX
                                       -
                               'THE ACNE ARMOURY'


In total there are over 40 weapons and special items of equipment in the game,
all of which can be bought with cash or picked up within the arena itself.


CASH

The currency of the game is called Doshmarks, and these are awarded to the
player according to what type of game they are playing in.

In the League games the amount of doshmarks he has to spend depend on how many
points he scored in his last game. Before each new game begins he can use these
in the armoury to buy new weapons for his contraption. Any cash that he has left
over will remain his until he spends it, so he can accumulate larger sums over
the process of several games in order to buy the more expensive items of
equipment.


PICK-UPS

As well as buying weapons the player can gain additional hardware by picking it
up within the arena. There are 2 forms of pick-up to be found:

DROP-INS: toilet shaped objects that parachute in from the arena roof. They tend
to contain the more basic items of equipment such as missiles and rockets,
although can sometimes contain more exotic hardware.

PIGEONS: bird shaped objects that occasionally turn up and fly around the arena.
They can contain ANY of the hardware items found in the armoury, primarily the
more expensive and lethal forms of weaponry. However be wary, for shooting a
pigeon can also unleash a special arena event. These can either be extremely
good or extremely bad, and are listed briefly below.

Cyclone - creates high winds at high altitudes within the arena, which can throw
your contraption around at all the wrong times.

Flak - anti-aircraft fire begins bursting in the air at low altitudes. Extremely
lethal.

Jungle Sunset - night time falls on the arena, making it difficult to see your
opponents.

Hero Pigeon - a huge pigeon is unleashed within the arena, a Hero-Pigeon out to
avenge all innocent bids mercilessly cut down by the wingnut pilots. It kills by
crashing bodily into the slower contraptions and will only stop if killed. A
near impossible task.

IT Mode - the unfortunate player becomes 'IT'. Anyone who causes him serious
damage will gain a large points bonus, therefore making him a very attractive
target. The 'IT' player can pass on this unfortunate affliction by causing
serious damage to another contraption. The pilot in this contraption then
becomes the new 'IT', and so on.

Funky Mode - your wingnut dons a dodgy oldearth costume, slaps a police light on
his contraption, and is invincible for the next two minutes.

To gain the contents of a pick-up (whether toilet or pigeon) you need to either
shoot them or collide with them. You will then automatically be given the
weapons they contain.


ACNE HARDWARE

MISSILES

IMPALER MISSILE: the standard homing missile of the game.

DUMMY MISSILE: looks like a normal missile but causes no damage at all. Anyone
hit by this will hear the sound of mocking laughter.

PAINT MISSILE: causes no damage but temporarily blinds the target by covering
him in paint. This will disappear eventually, although flying at high speed and
diving can sometimes shift it faster.

ACID MISSILE: causes damage by covering the contraption in acid which eats away
at it's structure, therefore drastically reducing it's handling.

NEEDLE MISSILE: causes no damage but temporarily knocks out the target's
engines. Deadly at low altitudes.

SMARMY MISSILE: same as an Impaler except that it ignores all decoys.

SKUNK MISSILE: mega missile that causes twice the damage of Impalers.

CLUSTER MISSILE: explodes in mid-air and launches an Impaler at every other
contraption that is still flying.

ROCKETS: unguided missiles that simply fly straight ahead until hitting
something, usually launched in groups to increase their chances of hitting. They
cause less damage than an Impaler missile but can be lethal if launched at close
range in large numbers.


DEPLOYS

MISSILE DECOYS: these have a 50% chance of attracting any missile that flies
close to them.

PROX MINES: like all deploys this is launched behind the back of your
contraption. It will stay in this position until it self-detonates or another
contraption flies close to it. Causes the same amount of damage as a single
rocket.

DUMMY MINES: cause no damage except an immediate change of underwear. Anyone who
runs into one of these things will hear the sound of mocking laughter.

SMOKE DEPLOY: this will cause smoke to trail from the back of your contraption,
which will partially obscure you from anyone on your tail. Can also be used to
fake your own death...

ACID DEPLOY: exactly the same as the smoke deploy above, except the smoke trail
is actually mixed with acid. Any contraption that flies through this smoke will
suffer a reduction in handling.

TEARGAS DEPLOY: similar to above except the smoke is mixed with teargas. Any
pilot who flies through this smoke will suffer temporary blindness.

SNOOZE DEPLOY: this launches smoke that is laced with sleeping gas. Flying
through it will result in temporary unconsciousness (the duration depending on
how tough your pilot is).


LASERS

Note that due to overheating, lasers may only be fired once every 5 seconds.

BLIND FLARE: if successful this will temporarily blind the target.

FEAR DISRUPTOR: causes the target to be sick, reducing the pilot's skill and
therefore the overall handling of the contraption.

FEAR SONICS: same as the fear disruptor except this works as a radius weapon.
Once activated every pilot that is currently on your short-range radar (see
Radar in Chapter Two) will be effected by it's millimetre-wave sound bursts,
suffering sickness and handling loss.

CONTROLS REVERSE: causes the target's controls to temporarily reverse. When they
turn left they will go right; when they climb up they will dive down. Also
causes them to talk Flemish for the duration of the game. Very frustrating.

GUN JAM: forces the target's guns to overheat and therefore jam. They will begin
working again in a short while, depending on how good the pilot's Hotwiring
skill is.

BODYSWAP: this is an extremely nasty weapon for those who want to really annoy
the opposition. When fired at a target your own pilot will exchange places with
him. Therefore you will end up in his contraption and vice versa, via a
short-pulse teleportation. Very useful if your opponent has a better contraption
than yours, or if you are almost wrecked.

SNATCH: this weapon causes no damage or adverse effects during the game. What it
does do is rob the target of his game points (see Flying Chapter) and gives them
to you.


SHIELDS

Only one shield may be activated at any given time. Note that all shields will
eventually burn themselves out due to overheating, and so are not permanent
devices.

CHICKEN UNIT: works like a cloaking device by temporarily rendering your craft
invisible. However you can still be seen on radar.

TURKEY UNIT: temporarily renders your contraption invisible to radar, although
you can still be physically seen. Also makes it impossible for other pilots to
lock onto you.

PROTECTION SHIELD: while it is active you will be immune to all laser weapons.

RAMMING SHIELD: makes your contraption immune to all collision damage with other
contraptions, allowing you to ram them on purpose without you yourself being
harmed. Does not however protect you from collisions with the ground or hills.


OTHERS

NIGHT VISION: allows you to see clearly at night.

BLUNDERBUSS: This weapon can only be used if you are on the ground (whether
landed or crash landed). It is basically a miniature gatling gun that your
wingnut carries with him in his cockpit. Once he touches down on the ground he
can whip this out and use it against the other contraptions still in the air.

TELEPORTER: Randomly teleports your entire contraption to a different area of
the arena. Very useful if you need to get out of a nasty situation. Be warned
thought - it is entirely random, so could therefore teleport you into the middle
of a mesa.

REPAIR UNIT: instantly repairs any toughness points your contraption may have
lost.

MEDICAL UNIT: instantly restores any toughness the wingnut may have lost.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 CHAPTER SEVEN
                                       -
                                 'ARENA GAMES'


GAME TYPES

The sport of Wingnuts is a wide ranging activity, and pilots have many options
to choose from. This chapter explains the various types of games available to
the novice wingnut.


PRACTICE CLASH

A single one-off game that is commonly used by wingnuts to improve on their
flying and firing abilities. You fly in a mock practice fight against 5 other
novice pilots.


SINGLE CLASH

This a real one-off arena fight in which you fly against 5 other eager wingnuts.
These single games are commonly used by pilots to settle old vendettas or to
improve their status with the fans. They are therefore highly competitive and
often result in multiple fatalities.


RODDERS MEMORIAL CHAMPIONSHIPS

The championships are the single most important event of the wingnuts sport, and
the league of championship games are followed by more fans than all the other
types of games put together. There are 4 divisions within the championships,
each one having it's own trophy and prize at the end of each season. However it
is the division one games that are the most fanatically watched, and the winner
of this division is hailed as the overall championship winner, and the greatest
wingnut of the year.


THE SPUDLEY CUP

This is a bonus series of games that are always played a month after the
championships have finished. Although not as coveted as the Rodders Memorial
Trophy, winning this competition still holds a high level of prestige.

Anyone can enter the Spudley Cup and many young pilots choose to participate in
the hope of making a quick name for themselves. There are no divisions and far
fewer rounds than a standard championship season.

The Cup is a fast and furious knock-out competition in which the multitude of
entrants are quickly whittled down to a core of skilled or lucky pilots. The
games are slightly different from those in the championships, in that each match
has a time limit of 2 minutes. After this the game becomes sudden death, which
means that any damage that you sustain, regardless of how minor, will knock you
out of the game.

The ultimate goal is to make it to the finals, played on day 7 of the
competition and watched by a huge number of fans. The winner of this final wins
the Spudley Cup.


THE JIMBOB GRUDGE TITLE

This is a unique game which most wingnuts try once and then vow to never try
again. It is basically a demolition derby in the air between 6 frenzied pilots,
the only problem being that everyone is out to get you. That's right, 5 highly
skilled combatants working together to knock you back into the dark-ages.

Only 2 pilots in the history of this title have ever managed to win it (i.e.
destroyed everyone else). They were Jim Lazarus and Bob Apollo, and the title
became known after this date as the JimBob Grudge Title. Few people expect to
repeat these legendary performances and win the game - they participate to see
how long they can survive in the fight before being knocked out. The current
standing record is a mere 42 seconds...

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 CHAPTER EIGHT
                                       -
                           'THE JIMBOB FLYING CIRCUS'


JIM: So here we are again, heh Bob? Another batch of freshfaced punks hoping to
make it big in their favourite sport...

BOB: And a sorry bunch they are too, Jim. Look at them. Faces like a six week
old turnip. Eyes like two squirtholes in a snow drift. Watching too much TVEE
I'd say. Think they know it all 'cos they've watched Camp Henry pull the
Immelman sixteen times in the reruns.

JIM: Probably played the game too Bob. Read our wingnuts manual cover to cover.
Think they got it sussed, think they're ready to fly, ready to have some action.
You know what Bob, I think we should just forget our usual pre-training lessons.

BOB: You know Jim, I think you're right. Let's just send them up, give them what
they really want.

JIM: Listen up cadets - that includes you DiGriz! We're all going up on a little
flight, help you get used to the real thing. Yes yes yes, no need to thank us
just yet. Plenty of time for that later. Now - to your contraptions!

                                   ---------

BOB: Hmnn, didn't do to well, did they Jim?

JIM: I think giving them live ammo may have been a little pre-emptive Bob. You
cadets - help carry the wounded into the hall.

BOB: Now listen up people - stop that snivelling Withnail! And for the last
time, no I am not the ruddy farmer. So you cadets thought you knew it all, huh?
I hope our little exercise up there helped clear your heads a little. Now, if
you're ready to listen, myself and Jim here are going to teach you a few
lessons.

JIM: Yup, Bob and I, we're going to teach you how to really fly...


PLAYING TIPS - FLYING

- Often in the heat of combat it is easy for a pilot to become disorientated as
to his facing or turning direction. When this occurs simply flick to the outside
view. This will allow you to quickly see the orientation of your craft so you
can achieve level flight again. The outside view is also useful for seeing
exactly how close to the ground you are when flying at low altitude.

- When your craft is aimed skywards and you wish to level off again, the fastest
way of doing so is by cutting your speed until you stall. The craft will level
off and you can then increase your speed again.


COMBAT

- Superior tactics can often win over superior fire power. Think before firing a
weapon.

- Use dummy missiles to waste an opponents decoys, and then launch the more
expensive stuff. When you want to use the blunderbuss try touching down on the
landing strip - you can sit there firing at any flying targets while your own
damage continues to be repaired. When chasing a more manoeuvrable contraption,
wreck his handling with the use of fear lasers or acid missiles so that he loses
this advantage.

- Each weapon has its own unique capabilities and uses. Learn them and adapt
your tactics accordingly.


EVASIVE TACTICS

- Often the best way to shake a pursuer is to change your altitude, rather than
simply turning and turning.

- The Flash has enough speed to go ballistic (straight up fast), and hover
contraptions have the ability to dart upwards in an instant. A pursuing craft
will often stall trying to follow this sort of climb and lose you in the
attempt.

- A more dangerous course of action is to go into a power dive (increasing your
speed and pointing straight down) Try turning at the same time and your pursuer
will often lose sight of you altogether. Be warned though. A power dive is
difficult to get out of, and without skill and judgement you may well hit the
ground before you can level off.

- In really bad situations, when shaking your pursuer proves impossible, use a
teleporter if you have one. This will always get him off your tail.


MANOEUVRES

- There are many famous manoeuvres which wingnuts have invented and used over
the years. Here are a few of the better ones...

- The Apollo Splash - use this against grounded contraptions who are proving
difficult to take out. Fly slowly towards the target at a low altitude. Once you
are close, snap on a ramming shield and dive into him, pulling up at the moment
of collision. Hopefully the collision will bounce you in the right direction
(upwards) and you will avoid hitting the ground, while your target is left a
smoking wreck behind.

- The Lazarus Hop - another use of the above tactic. If you happen to find
yourself grounded with damaged engines and cannot reach the takeoff speed, try
colliding with any nearby contraptions on the ground. Again pull up at the
moment of collision and you might just be bounced into the air.

- The Hammerhead Handsome - used in situations where two contraptions are flying
head-on at each other. Fire off the usual volley of rockets and cannon shells,
but just before you both collide, turn on a ramming shield. Then at the moment
of impact, dump every mine and deploy you have. Having already lost most of his
toughness in the collision your opponent will then fly straight into them and
die horribly...


GENERAL TACTICS

- Remember that your guns are only effective at short ranges. Get as close as
possible before firing them at a target.

- Head for the landing-strip as soon your craft becomes critically damaged and
seek out those much-needed repairs.

- Pick up as many points as possible by shooting down dropins and pigeons
whenever they appear.

- And remember, let's be careful out there!

                                    --------

BOB: Right, that's your lot! Now we take to the air again to see what you've
really remembered.

JIM: And this time, let's try and get it right shall we?
