Wingnuts: Game Controls Manual


Requirements

Wingnuts requires a minimum of:
* 68020 processor
* 2Mb RAM
* AGA chipset

Extra RAM and a hard drive are recommended.


Installing to hard disk

Approximately 2.5Mb of free space will be required to install Wingnuts.

An installer script is included. Simply run the script and follow the on-screen
prompts.

The Amiga Installer program will be required to run this script. It is not
supplied due to space limitations, but can be found on many other packages with
an install script.


Saving games to disk

Games may be saved to hard drive. However, only one game may be saved at any
time.

It is also possible to save out an individual pilot. In multiplayer games this
allows the players to each load in their own experienced pilot.


Serial Link

Games Three or four human players can compete against one another in Wingnuts by
linking two Amigas together. This is achieved by means of a null-modem cable.

With the serial link cable connected, load Wingnuts as normal on the first
machine. On the second, double click the "WingnutsSerial" icon.

All selection, setting of options and displaying of match results will take
place on the first machine. The second will wait until play is started.

A serial linked game will automatically be started if a 3 or 4 player game is
chosen.


Controls

Flight Keys
Player 1      Player 2
Joystick 1    Joystick 2      Flight control, fire weapon
Return        Ctrl            Increase speed
Right Shift   Left Shift      Decrease speed


Weapon Keys

Player 1      Player 2
F6            F1              Guns/Rockets
F7            F2              Missiles
F8            F3              Aft Launchers
F9            F4              Lasers
F10           F5              Shields/Others
Backspace     ' ~ '           Launch decoy
Right Alt     Left Alt        Change Target


View Keys

Player 1      Player 2
>             X               Look back/forward
<             Z               Camera/Missile view

Help    Change detail level (in serial mode, 1st machine controls both)


Other Keys

Player 1      Player 2
Right Amiga   Left Amiga      AutoLand Mode
H   Pause game (only on 1st machine if playing in serial mode)
Esc (whilst in pause mode)    Exit arena


Radar Colour Codes

Black (flashing).....Missiles
Black (solid)........Dropins/Pigeons
White (flashing).....Hero Pigeons
