


                        SIMON THE SORCERER Solution.
                      --------------------------------


After reading Calypso's note, open the drawer in the middle of the room and
pick up the scissors. Next pick up the magnet off the fridge. Leave the
cottage and walk east to the blacksmith's house. Pick up the rope from next to
the barrel and pick the clapper up from the table by the blacksmith's head.

Go east and you will come across a "Dodgy Geezer"- don't talk to him just yet.
Head left to the cottage and pick up the ladder. Go into the cottage and at
the top of the stairs you will find a specimen jar. Pick it up. By the door is
a cold remedy which you must also pick up. Leave the cottage and make your way
to talk to the dodgy geezer. When he has finished showing you all of his items
exit east twice.

Enter the Drunken Druid and pick up the matches off the fruit machine. Use 
scissors on the dwarf and enter the room to the east. Talk to the wizards
until they agree to make you into a wizard, make sure you get the staff off
them.

Exit the Drunken Druid, exit west twice, south, east, and attempt to walk past
the tree stump, whose woodworm will speak to you. Try to walk past again and
they will speak again. Talk to woodworm until they send you to get them some
mahogany, then exit south, then west. 

Use handle on well, pick up the bucket of water and exit east four times.
Talk to the troll until he asks you to get him a goat (may take a while), then
exit west four times, then east. Talk to the barbarian and pull the thorn from
his foot, for which he will give you a whistle.

Go north then east. Talk to the wise owl and pick up his feather when it falls
Go east twice then north-east. Talk to the hole and exit east then north. Pick
up the shopping list, go east, then pick up the rock and look at it. Go east
twice and talk to the woodcutter until he gives you his metal detector.

Use the map to take you to the centre of the forest, go north-east and enter
the cave. Exit east and open the swampling's door. The swampling will talk you
into eating his swamp stew. When finished, ask for another helping (eat it)
and then another helping (put it in the specimen jar). The swampling will by
now have run out of stew and will leave to get some more ingredients.

Exit Swampling's house, go east three times and use the metal detector, which
will find Milrith. Exit east and you will see a giant. Go back to the troll
and talk to him. He will take your whistle and blow it, bringing the barbarian
, who will kick the bejesus out of the troll and throw him in the stream.
Pick up the placard, exit east three times and talk to the Oaf.

Simon will then pour water on the beans and exit to the east. Return to this
scene and pick up the beans , exit east then south-east.

Use the clapper on the bell, then use the bell. Climb the hair (!) and talk to
the princess until you have to kiss her. Have a bit of a lip smaker with her
and she will turn into a pig. Pick up the pig, climb back down the hair and
return to the village. Open shop door, give shopping list to the shopkeeper
and exit the shop.

Return to the cottage at the beginning and go around the back. Use the beans
on the compost and take the watermelon. Now go back to the cottage where you
took the cold remedy from and exit west. Use pig with chocolate truffle door
and enter cottage. Pick up the smoke box and the hat and go outside. Use the
smoke box on the beehive and pick up the wax.

Go back to the Drunken Druid and talk to the barman. Order a drink, and when
he bends down, use the wax with the barrel. He'll think it's empty and take it
outside, then he will give you a beer voucher.

Exit the bar and pick up the barrel. Go to the troll bridge and exit north-
west. Use melon in sousaphone and it will be yours. Return to the giant and
use the sousaphone - he will knock over the tree. Go east twice and enter the
dragon cave. Use cold remedy with dragon and take the fire extinguisher, leave
the cave and exit north-east. Pick up the rock and return to the village
blacksmith. Put the rock on the anvil and the smithy will break it to reveal
a fossil.

Return to the man in the hole and use the fossil with the hole. Tell him you
found it where you left your metal detector and return to that point. Looking
at the dirt you will find milrith ore - pick it up. Go back and give it to the
blacksmith, who will make an axehead with it. Return to the woodcutter and 
give the axehead to him, whereby he will saunter off to cut down trees
(wouldn't be much of a woodcutter otherwise, see). Enter the woodcutter's
house and pick up the climbing pin, then use the fire extinguisher on the
fireplace and move the hook. Take the mahogany from the secret room and return
to the woodworm. Talk to the woodworm and they will jump onto the mahogany.

Now return to the pig's house and climb the hair. Use the woodworm on the
floorboards and you will drop through them. Pick up the door wedge and open 
the door. Use ladder in the hole and climb down. Open the tomb and you will be
chased away by a mummy. Return to the tomb, open it again and pick up the
loose bandages, then pick up the staff.

Go to the centre of the forest, wear the dwarf's beard and enter the dwarf's
mine. Attempt to go south-west, and when stopped by the guard, offer him a
bribe of beer. He will then take you south-east. Use feather on sleeping dwarf
and pick up the key. Exit up the stairs then go south-west. Pick up the hook,
use the key in the door and enter. Offer the guard the beer voucher, then
return to the dragon cave and use the hook on the boulder outside the cave
entrance and climb it. Now use the rope with the magnet, then use the rope and
magnet with the hole until you can't get any more gold. (You should have 24
pieces by this stage). Now return to the village shop and buy the hammer and
the white spirit.

Return to the swampling's house and move the crate, open the trapdoor and
enter. Use hammer on the loose plank, walk east and pick up the frogsbane from
Skull Island. Return to the dragon cave, go north-east, then east until you
come across a tree with a pink splodge on it. Look at the splodge and he will
talk to you. Use the white spirit on the pink splodge, and he will now tell
you some magic words.

Return to the village and give the dodgy geezer the gem. Then return to the
bar and when you meet the wizards give them the staff and money, for which you
will receive a wizard's starter pack.

Go to the witch's house and enter. Try to take the broom and she will appear
and challenge you to a wizard's duel. You can't have one until you have a
spellbook. Go past the dragon's cave to the location of the climbing pins and
use them in the hole. When you try to climb up, the snowman will not let you
past. Go to the crossroads, then north-east, and climb down the vines and talk
to Golum who will take the swamp stew. Fish around until you find an
invisibility ring, then return to the village shop and open the box. You will
be taken to the castle where you found the shopping list.

Once at the castle, open the box you are in and look at the boxes to find the
spellbook. Look at the spellbook to find a piece of paper and use the paper
with the door. Pick up the ratbone and use it on the lock, then pick up the
paper with the key and use it to get out.

Pick up the bucket and go downstairs, then pick up the flaming brand and mints
Talk to the druid , then remove the ring and talk to him again. When he asks
you about the escape plan ask if he has any bright ideas, then use the bucket
on his head, followed by using the flaming brand on him, upon which he will
turn into a frog.

Hide in the iron maiden, then open the iron maiden, take the hacksaw from the
frog and use it in the bars. Return to the house from where you got the cold
remedy, and once inside, the druid will give you a portion in exchange for the
frogsbane. Now return to the witch's house to take up the challenge of the 
wizard's duel. Use any of the magic words (apart from abracadabra) to defeat
her, and if you are not succesful, try again until you are. On defeating the
witch, she will transform into a dragon, and now is the time to say abracada-
bra, which will change you into a mouse and allow you to escape through the
mouse hole.

Now go to the snowman, and consume the mints to melt him, then continue east
to the tower of doom. The bridge will collapse when you reach it, so use the
broom to get across. Consume the potion to get through a crack in the door.
Take some hair off the dog, who will deposit you at the far door. Look at the
bucket and pick up the matchstick, leaf and stone. Exit west, then pick up
lily leaf. Use matchstick with lily leaf, then leaf with matchstick. Sail to
the seeds and pick them up, then use the stone with the seeds to make some oil

Sail to the shore, use oil on the tap, use hair on the tap. Sail to the centre
of the puddle. When you get to the other side, look in the water and pick up
the tadpole. Tell the frog to move, or the tadpole gets it! Now pick up and
consume the mushroom and you will return to normal size.

Pick up the branch, open the door and enter, now use the branch on the chest.
Pick up the spear and shield, go down the stairs and pick up the chest, move
the lever and place the chest on the block, move the lever twice and pick up
the candles. Use the spear with the skull and pick up the skull. Go upstairs
twice (like, two flights of stairs, yeah?) and pick up the sock, pouch, book
and magic wand. Use the sock with the pouch, then the pouch with the mouse
hole, look at the mirror then look at the book.

Go upstairs again and pick up the chemicals and the book. Look at the book and
talk to the demons until they agree to tell you how to work the transporter
for sending you back. Use chemicals with shield, use shield with hook.  Go
downstairs, talk to the mirror and get him to show you upstairs.

Go upstairs and talk to the demons, and they will give you the chalk to draw
the magic square and tell you how to work the teleporter. Walk to the tele-
porter and tell it you want to go to the fiery pits of Randor. When there,
pick up the sapling and pebble and talk to the attendant who will give you a
brouchure. Look at the brouchure and you'll find an elastic band which you
must use with the sapling to make a catapult. Use the catapult on the bell,
then pick up the matches off the counter and exit east.

Pick up the floor wax and exit east, use the wand on Sordid, then use the
matches on pits and throw the wand into the lava.

Sordid will come back to life and eventually send you to the bottom of the
pit. Climb from the pit, go back into the room and, TA-DA!, use the floor wax
on Sordid. And that's it, you have finished the game.
