                              Quake redone Quick
                          Frequently Asked Questions
                              ------------------




(0) Index

(1) What for?

(2) Why... ?
 (2.1) Why is there no Mac version?
 (2.2) Why is the run slower than QdQwav?
 (2.3) Why did you hide the easter-eggs?

(3) How... ?
 (3.1) How did you time the run?
 (3.2) How did you record the run?
 (3.3) How did you turn it into a movie?

(4) Which... ?
 (4.1) Which utilities did you use?
 (4.2) Which sounds did you use?

(5) Miscelaneous
 (5.1) Who helped out with the movie?
 (5.2) What's the history behind this project?
 (5.3) Will we see some more stuff from you in the future?

(5) More Questions? 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) What for?

Heh, you've answered that question by yourself already :)

No, seriously - people usually feel odd when they see large textfiles, and tend
not to read them at all, so I decided to split the seemingly unneccessary stuff
from the more crucial stuff.

That's why I've created this small FAQ.

If you're referring to the run itself... well, let's say I had spare time. To
get this far, it also requires a good amount of challenge and fun, I'd say.


(2) Why is... ?

(2.1) Why is there no Mac version?

Because nobody volunteered for converting the whole thingie for your platform
yet. If you are experienced in coding on a Mac or think you could write an
installation-routine which replaces the work of INSTALL.BAT, I'd be very keen
hearing from you.

(2.2) Why is the run slower than QdQwav?

QdQwav is the Nightmare run by the QdQ team, which was released in 2000 and
which was 48 seconds faster than QrdQ is. The reason for my run beeing slower
is that I did ALL of the major work by myself - talk about running every single
level and refilming them, plus post-producing and testing the final product. I
also recorded vocals later on, in order to let the player appear more lively.

The idea was to let one single person alone produce the whole thing, which has
been working out surprisingly well. If you're interested into the submissions
by third-party-members, scroll down to section 5.1.

Anyways, the decision still had it's disadvantage of course: I couldn't simply
focus on a handfull of maps I play best on, and polish them for weeks as if I
was working in a team. It's way more hard to optimize a lot of maps parallely,
as your skill is improving constantly and your latter runs will always appear
ahead of the earlier ones. The same applies to recams, yet I took efforts to
bring them down to the best possible quality with the recent release of QrdQ
Gold. I didn't accomplish this in time for the original QrdQ release though,
because I had to stop myself from tweaking further and further at some point,
otherwise I would've probably never found an end, and such delayed the (fairly
too late) release of QrdQ more and more, and more.

Perfectionism can indeed be a curse.

(2.3) Why did you hide the easter-eggs?

Because people like that kind of hidden stuff :) It's almost tradition at QdQ
to include a secret code in the menu!

Oh and if you haven't figured it out yet... well, yea ok then you must be
pretty dumb actually :P Seriously, think about the name, or the URL of the
site you've dowloaded this movie from. Or simply check the PAK files. Or the
CONFIG.CFG Quake generates, or... well you've got it by now, right?

Btw if you're searching for the easter-eggs within the lone-standing first-
person version of QrdQ, you won't succeed. I've removed them in order to yield
down the file-size. You'll either have to get the movie- or the full-version in
order to access them. So much about the disclaimer ;)


(3) How... ?

(3.1) How did you time the run?

I should probably clarify exactly what I mean when I say that my run of
Quake is performed in 13:11. There are several possible ambiguities to deal
with when timing a demo, particularly one spread across the whole game.

Today, speed-runners have settled on what they think are the most sensible
ways of resolving them and all of them (including me) use QdQstats to record
their demos.

(3.1.1) Timing a regular level

Of course, I use the Quake's built-in timer. In fact, this makes the times
longer than they really are, since the timer starts at 1.39999998 seconds at
the beginning of a demo, however there is a small trick I did NOT use to gain
0.2 seconds there. The times are taken from the intermission screen, i.e.
fractions of seconds are discarded.

Now it can happen, when Quake plays back a demo and the time is _very_ close
to the next second, the timer may tick on to the next second before the engine
reads the time following the start of the intermission, and Quake could
display a time that is one second larger than the time shown when the demo was
originally recorded.

Whether or not it occurs depends on how close to the next whole number of
seconds the demo time actually was, and it also depends on the speed of the
computer you are playing the demo on. An example for this is E4M5, which time
is 0:08.98 - close enough to 0:09 that some computers will display a time of
0:09 when they playback the demo, even if it really is a 0:08 demo.

Fortunately, QdQstats always displays the correct time on the console, and to
give you somewhat of a proof, I kept these messages so that you may have a
look at them by pressing "toggleconsole" once the intermission screen appears.

(3.1.2) Timing START

I didn't make an effort to run the start map as fast as possible, because
there's no intermission screen at the end of it, and you enter it more than
just one time.

(3.1.3) Timing the whole game

Of course, the time for the whole game is the sum of the times for the
individual levels.
Note that you have to follow some rules when making a game run. One of them is
collecting all four runes - this is a must if you want to reach the END level,
and until today nobody has found a trick to skip that unpleasant part of the
game :P

(3.2) How did you record the run?

This run was created by recording a demo for each level individually, since
this made me able to include more tricks and reduce the time. However, I was
very careful to ensure that the finished product really IS a continuous run
through the game. I start each new level with the correct statistics relative
to the previous level, except that the Quake engine always grants you a
minimum of 50 health and a maximum of 100 as well as a minimum of 25 shells,
and disables all powerups whenever you start a new level.

Continuity is very important - it adds a lot of strategy to the game, since
items that one finds in earlier levels can be used in later ones, but those
that one avoids to save time cannot. Many subtle interconnected decisions have
to be taken, e.g. sacrificing 2 seconds at e4m6 to get the rocketlauncher in
order to save even more time in e4m7. If you are interested in the routes of
individual levels, or the history of individual tricks, check ROUTES.TXT
included in QdQwav!

If you find any continuity problems with this demo, *please* tell me. I think
I've double-checked everything double and twice, but there's never a guarantee
that a single nail has not managed to slip away under my aware eyes ;) Thanks!

(3.3) How did you turn it into a movie?

Since this run does not represent the latest state-of-the-art of speedrunning,
I've decided to refilm the demos to be shown from an independent camera per-
spective, in order to make the run more entertaining for the viewers. To do
that, I used a utility called ReMaic. One writes a screenplay for the level
and uses the tool with it to produce a remade version of the original demo.
See section 4.1 for more information!

Several other changes I made were adding a few additional sound-fx and one-
liners, adapting a modified eyes-model from SdS (which makes the position of an
invisible player more obvious for the viewer), make the player lose various
amounts of blood when badly hurt, and finally adapt some of the models from the
DeathMatch Essentials mod as well, to show which weapon the player is currently
holding.

I didn't change anything to mislead you about the play in the demo, of course.
You can always watch the first-person demos if you prefer the Quake experience
you are more used to!


(4) Which... ?

(4.1) Which utilities did you use?

These are the tools I required to produce this movie:

Cool Edit 96 <http://www.CoolEdit.com/>
 Commonly used sound-editor. Features quite a lot of options, and is also
 rather easy to use. Real Pros would be using SoundForge, of course.

DemoRelise (unreleased)
 Tiny hack that changes a demos starting-statistics relative to those the
 previous (i.e. another) level ended with.

DemTool <http://www.PlanetQuake.com/QdQ/>
 Fairly too much features to be listed here, of which almost every single one
 became useful to me. A must-have for everyone fiddling around with Quake
 demos.

LMPC and DemCut <http://www.PlanetQuake.com/DemoSpecs/>
 To turn a binary demo into an ASCII textfile (and the other way around), and
 also to merge demos that were recorded on different levels (which became
 useful whilst working on the egg-demos).

QdQstats <http://www.PlanetQuake.com/QdQ/>
 The allmighty QdQstats, including features such as a more precise timer, a
 grenade-counter, cheat-protection and of course the possibility to change your
 starting statistics.

ReMaic <http://www.PlanetQuake.com/ReMaic/>
 "Reshoot Existing Movie, Altering Its Camera" - used to recam the demos from
 an independent camera-perspective. Also recommended is the more user-friendly
 "ReMaic Studio" which is linked on the same page.

StrangeUtility <http://www.StrangeCompany.org/>
 Supports MP3 conversion for Quake PAK files. Great help in squeezing the
 filesize!

Ultra Edit <http://www.UltraEdit.com/>
 Dope editor which I'm using for almost anything, really. Highly recommended!

(4.2) Which sounds did you use?

Here's a list of the tunes or sound-fx I used in the movie-version, along with
their sources, in order of appearance. I hope that I do not offend anyone by
using them here, but if so I'm open for removing them at once.

Yet after all, it's a free plug, people!

MAP:      DESCRIPTION     - SOURCE (INTERPRET / ARTIST / COMPOSER / ...)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
menu:     ambient sound   - "Come On Feet" (Quasimoto)
intro:    fanfare         - "Carmina Burana - O Fortuna" (Carl Orff)
          theme           - "Callin the shots" instrumental (Planet Asia)
e1m7:     intermission    - "Who's The Man" instrumental (House Of Pain)
e2m6:     jukebox         - "Oops!... I Did It Again" (Britney Spears)
                          - "The Real Slim Shady" (Eminem)
                          - "Bad Touch" (Bloodhount Gang)
                          - "Runnin'" (Pharcyde)
e2m6:     intermission    - "Come Clean" instrumental (Jeru The Damaja)
e3m2:     zombie-groaning - cut from "The Maggots" (Simon Boswell)
e3m3:     popping sound   - www.SoundAmerica.com (unknown)
e3m4:     knocking sound  - ICQ (ICQ Inc.)
e3m5:     windtunnel fx   - www.SoundAmerica.com (unknown)
                          - Worms 2 (Team 17)
e3m6:     jingle          - "The Unseen" (Quasimoto)
e3m6:     intermission    - "Travellin Man" instrumental (DJ Honda)
e4m2:     advertisment    - System Shock 2 (Looking Glass Interactive)
e4m7:     intermission    - "Flava In Ya Ear" instrumental (Craig Mack)
end:      Shub-telefrag   - "Tale Of Five Cities" (Peanut Butter Wolf)
credits:  closing sound   - "I Got Cha Opin" instrumental (Black Moon)
egg5:     e2m4 underwater - "Jaws Theme" (John Williams)


(5) Miscelaneous

(5.1) Who helped out with the movie?

There are different people who helped out by sharing some hints, writing small
tools or just encouraging me. Almost everybody I know through speed-running
would deserved a mention, but I'll try to list only the most important
contributors:

Anthony Oetzmann - Composer of the banjo-tune that appears in e1m7, and post-
                   editor of the vocals I've recorded. This may not sound like
                   a huge compliment, considering how bad the quality of the
                   majority of these sounds actually is, but if you knew what
                   they sounded like _prior_ to his editing, you wouldn't
                   believe these are still the same files either!

                   The problem is that the quality suffered badly from my own
                   limits in tech (i.e. hardware), starting with the microphone
                   I was using and ending at my standard SoundBlaster 16 card,
                   which produces really bad offsets at one channel and thus
                   limited me to mono input. And rather than using the (pretty
                   cheap) MP3 format, going with something more subtle like OGG
                   would also have fit Tonys needs considerably better.

                   Unfortunately though, compiling a new Quake executable just
                   for this purpose (and my humble run) was a step too much for
                   me, not even talking about the Linux- and Amiga-ports. So I
                   feel sorry about that, even though I do not regret my
                   decision. Maybe Quake as it is does simply not stand the
                   est of the time any longer, incase you're planning to get
                   the maximum out of it (~machinima, for instance).

Stefan Schwoon - Programmer of the tool which produced the (constant) slow-
                 motion-effect at the end of, err, END. But not only that, he
                 also was a great help ever since I started speedrunning by
                 supporting me with all my projects, helping out with several
                 tech-issues, introducing me to programming etc.

                 Without exaggeration, none of my projects (QdQwav, QrdQ, CoT)
                 would have been possible without Stefan's help, nor would my
                 current website "Ill Mind Moves" be. Let it be spoken out
                 officially at this point: Thanks, Stefan!

Anthony Bailey - The person who brought me aboard the QdQ family back in 1999,
                 and who has been a great help tech-wise as well. For instance,
                 the base-skeleton of the menu-code was originally his, and we
                 both tried to find a way to implement constant slow-motion
                 without the need of a new Quake executable before Stefan came
                 up with his solution. And of course, most of the Perl scripts
                 QdQ (and me) are using nowadays are originally written by him.

                 I think that not only me, but also QdQ and the speedrunning-
                 scene in general wouln't have come very far without Anthony's
                 enthusiasm. I bow my head, old man!

Attila Csernyik - Creator of the menu map (which does also contain a few lines
                  of QuakeC), and programmer of the patch which puts the
                  missing loop-marker into MENU.WAV. Besides, he's also been
                  acting as beta-tester and gave me on or the other valuable
                  hint along the way, just as his (real-life) friend Peter
                  Horvath. I would have probably never understood several
                  tricks without the help of these two boyz (somewhat proper
                  bunny-hopping, the e4m1 curl etc.), which makes their impact
                  on the success of QrdQ quite obvious.

                  FYI, Attila is one of the most talented persons I know, alone
                  due to the fact that his talents are so wide-spread: he's
                  speaking several programing-languages, built whole Quake maps
                  and produced music-tracks, designed one or the other icon,
                  and last but not least he can be helluva speedrunnner if
                  there's request :) I guess there are a couple of more things
                  that I just don't know about yet.

                  And talking about Peter... well, he's the best - period.

(5.2) What's the history behind this project?

To be honest, I could write books about QrdQ's history nowadays, but I'll try
to give you a short overview about the developement from the first idea on
until the finished product.

It was at the end of 1996 when I first saw this awesome piece of software
called "Quake". The first time I played through it was on the 486 DX2 of my
brother, and still using keyboard just as everyone else. One thing I remember
pretty well was talking with a friend over the phone for hours, who played the
game parallely, but on Normal skill - unlike me, as I found Normal skill just
too hard to solve!

Although lacking a proper storyline, Quake somehow got me hooked with it's
moody athmosphere. Unfortunately, it ran very slow on my brothers comp, even
using low resolutions. That's why I started focusing on Duke Nukem 3D instead,
which gave me a great time for more than one year, too - first off Single
Player-wise, and later also in Multi Player.

It must've been in the beginning of 1998, when Quake 2 saw the light of the
gaming-world, and with it also the first 3Dfx cards. This was the point when
I started playing Quake again, finally with halfway acceptable framerates even
on my poor K5/133. (Note: I know the harcore-players among you also played NQ
online, equipped with a 486 and a 14K modem.) And slowly but decent, it took
more and more time of my time until the day when I finally tripped over the
"record" command, which was a feature I was missing in games ever since! No
longer would I just stand on the schoolyard talking about all the things I had
acchieved, but actually invite all my friends and let them watch me play :)

The first thing I did straight away was trying to get a first Nightmare 100%
attempt on tape, finishing off in roughly three hours, which was quite a bad
time even for the standards of '98 :P I soon noticed that it requires some
more, new (or rather different) skills to master Quake - but that only stired
my motivation!

However, a point of frustration was reached once my brother had introduced me
to QdQ and SDA. Well, not seriously, but just like everybody else out there I
was totally STUNNED by the awesome play in "Quake done Quick" and it's sequel
"Quake done Quicker", and was convinced that I would never be able to do
something worthy. Yet I still found entertainment in downloading half of SDA
from the flatrate at university during these days, and thus receiving my daily
dose of speedrunning-action.

After the dust had laid down, I decided that I should at least do some kind of
speedrun, no matter what the final time would be like. I was aiming somewhere
between the "untouchable" QdQr and the original 19:49 minutes of the first run,
just because it was a cool thing to do back then.

I don't remember how it was like when I first fired up Quake with the intention
to do a speedrun, but I do remember that the first map I tried was e1m3.
Yonathan's slope-grenadejump was one of the key-tricks required to complete the
first episode in a halfway acceptable time, and I decided that it wouldn't make
any sense to start the project if I was not even able to include at least this
trick! I turned out to cost days, no - weeks! until I could perform it at a
somewhat regular base. At the beginning, I was able to yield the times on this
map from 1:30+ down to 0:43, and completed the rest of the episode on the
plain, very basic route used in "Quake done Quick" (QdQ_1949). The final time
was three and a half minutes, which can still be downloaded from my site. Yes,
it was damn slow, but it was a start.

It was still way far from anything worth showing, tho. The point where I got
seriously started was reached when I finally did the slope-grenadejump in e1m4.
I had decided to improve Yonathan's run from QdQr as it was known since QdQlite
that the grenade could be thrown much faster than Yonathan did in his demo -
everyone was too lazy to redo the level on Nightmare skill with only a small
entry on the QdQ improvements page as a reward, though.

I sent several versions of e1m4 to QdQ, along with an explaination of my plans
on recording my own Nightmare run through Quake. I got reply from both Anthony
and Stefan soon, encouraging me to organize such a project as a general
improvement to QdQ_1635 together with help by the team! I felt very honoured by
that offer of course, and started mobilising some runners for the project. I
didn't drop the idea of doing an own run, though - on the contrary, my skills
improved greatly with that task, and finally I made the step to other episodes
apart from only the "shareware" one when everybody was asked to give his best
shot on e4m6.

About half a year later, at the end of 1999, I was finished with the first
full version of "Quake redone Quick". Apart from some troubles with e2m5, I was
pretty satisfied with the final result, beating my own estimations by margins
and even improving QdQr by a total of two minutes! The education at QdQ had
shown it's effects, and due to the Nightmare runs from SDA lacking wider
popularity and QdQwav still beeing in developement, QrdQ received massive
attention from the gaming community, and loads of positive feedback from the
viewers. It seemed to me as if the majority of the people had already been fans
of QdQ, but were not too interested in the projects which did not exactly
follow the spirit of the original "Quake done Quick" run, for example 100% runs
(getting all the secrets & kills as fast as possible), custom episode runs, or
Easy skill runs. And such, QrdQ was (with all the thought-to-be-new technics
and tricks, compared to QdQr) a huge success. The idea of refilming it came up
with the massive amount of requests for more.

Cut to december 2000, when I finally gave myself a kick and started working on
a new, improved and refilmed QrdQ which took me more than half a year to
finish. There's not as much to say about this time as there is about the
developement of the first run, not because there was happening less but because
it became more or less "the usual business". I wouldn't have thought how much
time it takes to recam thirteen minutes of ingame-footage and improve every
single level parallely, though :) It felt indeed like a full-time job from time
to time, without getting paid of course. Luckily the timing was perfect not to
mess with my new REAL full-time job which started in september 2001, the month
of the release of "Quake redone Quick - The Movie".

I planned to let the vocals follow a couple of weeks later, which roughly
became a few months. They were finally released at the end of 2002. That's to
some degree also due to the fading interest into Quake, especially Quake 1,
because even though there are still strong communities out there who are trying
to keep this dope piece of software alive, the huge gaming sites will simply
not cover Quake 1 news anymore, and none of the latter releases of QrdQ became
as popular as the first one had been.

Allright, that's a snippet of what comes to my mind at the moment. I won't
probably double-check this section again, since it's thought to be as authentic
as possible, without any corrections. I hope it was not too much at once - I
mentioned that I could fill books with that topic if I wanted ;)

I hope that I do not have forgot about anything essential, but then again - who
cares. It's all memories, and some of them are probably just feelings I had
rather than special places I'm looking back to. After all, this section was
created for myself in the first place.

(5.3) Will we see some more stuff from you in the future?

Since I'm starting my education and such "real" real-life right now, I don't
know how much time there will be left for Quake. I would have some neat ideas,
and also the motivation (although QrdQ pushed my patience pretty much to it's
limits), but the problem - as always - is spare-time. First of all, I'll try to
keep my brand-new site running, and do something useful for tRR. Time will tell
wether I'll ever lay hand on a project as large as this one once more.


(5) More Questions? 

If you still got questions, send some e-mail to Nagasaki@PlanetQuake.com, and
I'll try to answer as soon as possible.

What I want to avoid is people claiming all I produced was some hacked-up
cheat or something. It isn't. Rather contact me instantly instead of flaming
around without any proof.


***
[AK]Naga$akeY 2001-09-13 (updated: 2003-01-29)
http://www.PlanetQuake.com/illMind