
While in the Walrus arming menu, select nine Harbinger surface to surface
missiles and put them in the AAV.  Select the Avatar Chemical Laser and place
it over the missiles.  Then select the pod you want (ACCB, Virus Bomb, Fuel)
and place it in the AAV.  Then, when you've launched the AAV, look at it's
weapons and you'll find you have BOTH missiles and laser!  On returning to
the carrier any missiles you have left will be added to the ship's stores.
Carry on doing this and hundreds of missiles can be yours.  Another cheat:
while in the pause mode, type GROW OLD ALONG WITH ME (include the spaces).
You should now see the message "Cheat mode active".  Pressing the + key on
the numeric keypad protects your Mantas and AAVs from missile attacks. The -
key can be used to turn this off.  Pressing the following keys in sequence:
'Help', Q, S, Control, Alternate, gives you a little message. Pressing the 9
on the keypad displays the current level.  6 and 8 have some other effect.
Returning to the title screen, press the + and - keys to view all objects in
the game.

++++++++++++++++
A different source claims the following cheat:

Pause the game from the main view screen and type:
THE BEST IS YET TO BE, complete with spaces.  The game restarts
automatically, and  displays  ' Cheat Mode Activated ' in the message panel.
Use the + and - keys to display all objects. 
      
When paused, pressing + and - on the numeric keypad toggles
Manta invincibility: the flying craft are no longer vulnerable to aerial 
attack, although collision with large objects is still fatal. Once a course
has been programmed for the carrier, Mantas or Walruses, engage autopilot 
and click on pause. To avoid sloggin around inreal type, you will find that 
pressing 3 on the keypad and unpausing again takes the corresponding craft 
directly to its destination. Likewise, pausing and pressing 2 replaces lost
shielding, while tapping 1 refuels the craft in question. 9 shows the 
current difficulty level, 7 speeds up the game and 6 brings up the 
programmers' test palette!

A lot in this excellent simulation. PAUSE the game and type
GROW OLD ALONG WITH ME then press + on the numeric keypad for your 
mantas and walruses to become sheilded. Press - to disable.

Try pressing CTRL and M on the main screen for some interesting effects.
