                                  [Image]

                               Finishing MYST

                                  [Image]

             THIS IS A WALKTHROUGH-YOU WILL GET DIRECT ANSWERS

First things first-SAVE YOUR GAME!

If you haven't been doing it before now, you'd better make sure your game
is saved so that if you mess up, you can do it again. Go back to the
fireplace and get inside of it. Go ahead and turn the switch. When you see
the plate drop down though, you want to enter the correct pattern. You
should have written it down earlier when you where going through the
library books. It looks like this:
[Image]
NOTE---It's pattern number 158 in the far right book, middle shelf.
     Enter the pattern correctly by pushing on the slate in the right area.
When you're down, flip the switch. The fireplace moves and opens. There is
a GREEN colored book. Be careful! Open the book, without double clicking on
the page. Atrus will appear and talk to you. Click off of the book to put
it away. Get back in the fireplace, flip switch. At this point, if you
copied down the VAULT notes we found, you would know that you are now
supposed to make sure that all the marker switches on MYST Island are
switched (you should have done this earlier), except the one by the boat
dock where you started out. Do this. Go down to the docks and flip the
marker off. The WHITE PAGE will appear. Go back to the fireplace.

You're all ready to end it!!!

     Enter the correct fireplace code and pick up the GREEN Book. Now you
can travel to Atrus in Dunny by touching the page. Atrus is working at a
desk. Give him the page. He leaves to take care of "something". You WON!
Atrus will now tell you about an upcoming adventure (MYST 2). Here are the
ways to end MYST:
     ONE: Drop the white Page, and take the Red page to Sirrus. LOSER!
     TWO: Drop the White Page, and take the Blue page to Achenar. LOSER!
     THREE: Drop the White Page, and go Dunny without the White page.
LOSER! You should have listened to Atrus. You'll have time to learn. You're
now stuck with him Dunny.
     You can take the Myst book from the desk and go back. You are free to
explore all the ages of Myst. Notice that where the Red and Blue books
where are now fried, burned areas. That was the business Atrus took care of
when he took off for a second.
You're all done!!!! Get ready for MYST 2!
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     [MYST Island] [Stoneship] [Channelwood] [Mechanical] [Selenitic]
                      Back to MYST Journal! Feedback
