HyperCannon version 1.1 - Final Release edition

HyperCannon is an addictive arcade style shooter.
You take on the role of saving the solar system from
invading hordes of space fiends. The evil core is sending
a barrage of asteroids and an evil army of machines to
destroy the free planets of the galaxy. It's up to you to
fight them off with the powerful weapon systems of the
HyperCannon.


Features:

o 3D rendered visuals
o many levels of gameplay
o fully animated graphics
o responsive touch controls
o huge number of onscreen objects
o awesome weapons and powerups
o arcade and survival modes
o massive end of level bosses
o highscore table
o also available for iPhone + iPodTouch


Playing Instructions (Also see the in-game manual)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Installation:
Just copy the HyperCannon drawer to anywhere on your HD.

Requirements:
- Pegasos computer running MorphOS 1.4 or 2.x
- 3D gfx hardware supported by TinyGL
- Some HD space, can be copied anywhere
- lowlevel.library and a working gamepad recommended (USB or gameport)
- Uses AHI for sound so if you have problems increase the number of sound channels
  (requires at least 10)


How to play:

1. To play the game simply double click the icon
   titled "HyperCannon"

2. You can use either the gamepad or keyboard for input.
   "Button1" generally makes selections and "Button2"
   handles secondary functions.  If using keyboard use
   the arrow keys and the "z" and "x" keys to makes
   selections.  You can also use the mouse to
   make menu selections or skip display screens.

3. Choose an option on the title screen.
   You can play "Arcade Mode" or "Survival Mode"

4. To play use your gamepad or arrow keys to move the player
   left and right. FIRE fires your current weapon.  You
   can use a "SuperShield" by pressing your SHIELD, you
   start with 3 SuperShields but can collect more as you play.
   Continuing the game will also replenish your SuperShields.

5. You have unlimited ammunition but must watch that
   you do not overheat your cannon.  The temperature gauge is located
   in the upprer right corner of the display and will gradually increase
   as you fire your weapon.  An indicator sound will warn you when
   you are close to overheating, just let off the fire button or collect
   CoolDown powerups to decrease the temperature.

6. You start with 3 lives and your speed and weapon level is displayed
   in the upper left corner of the screen.  When you collect powerups
   these meters will fill up.  You can collect the "Wheel" powerup to get
   more speed. Collect the "CannonShell" powerup to increase your firepower
   If you get blown up you lose 2 powerup "points" and 1 player stock.

7. If you receive a highscore the name entry display will appear.
   You can select letters by pressing left or right and using Button1
   to make entries, Button2 backspaces.  Pressing up will take you
   to the "End" character and pressing down will take you to the
   "Start" character.


8. Enemy Descriptions:
   
   Big asteroids   - split into 2 pieces when shot

   Small asteroids - are worth more points.
   
   Note:
   When asteroids leave the display without being
   shot, you will actually lose some points so try
   to shoot as many as possible.
   
	Spinners - These nuclear powered bombs fall from the sky and
			  if they hit the bottom you will be destroyed instantly.
			  Use a supershield before they exit the screen to save
			  yourself from spinner destruction.
   
	Seekers - Will try to follow your cannon, shoot or dodge them.
			 These enemies are difficult to beat with the scatter shot
			 so try another weapon.

	Space Trains (saucers) - will try to shoot the player as they go across.
							quickly dodge between their bullets or use a
							shield to be safe. Space trains will often
							drop a helper Droid when destroyed.

	Lasers - will track across the top of the screen and try to destroy the
			player by firing down.  Use your shields and weapons strategically
			to advance. Also try not to stay under the lasers path very long.
			All lasers must be destroyed to complete the wave

	Mines - These explosive objects hover in the air and block your shots.
		   When destroyed they will shoot some projectyles at the player so watch out.

	Hoppers - These insidious enemies travel along the bottom
			 and try to hop onto your ship. When they hop you can
			 shoot them from underneath or try collecting the
			 WaveBeam weapon to reach them while on the ground.
			 If you have nowhere to run use a SuperShield to protect
             yourself.

	Crabbo - This is the World 1 boss enemy. Reveal his weak spot
			 to inflict Massive Damage! Once you destroy the arms
			 watch out for bubble attacks. The wave beam is particulary
			 ineffective on this enemy so try another weapon.

	Vines - Vines will grow over and block your shots if you let them get
			out of hand. Shoot the tip of the vine where it is growing
			to disable them. WaveBeam or ShellShot work best on this enemy.

	Insector - Insectors fly in swarms and if left unchecked will come down
			   to destroy your cannon.

	InsectorX - This version of the Insector is more agressive and will
				drop projectyles on the player.

	BigInsector - These large insector gaurdians act similar to their X
				  variants but take a lot more punishment and follow
				  the player more closely.

	WarpGear - WarpGears come out of nowhere for a surprise attack, listen
			   for the distinctive sound they make when appearing for an
			   advantage.

	RockCore - This giant hollow boss enemy contains an energy core that
			   must be destroyed. First start by knocking off it's outer
			   shell but watch out as pieces fall down. Also try not to
			   get crushed.

	VRock - Volcanic Rocks occasionally spew forth on the LavePlanet, they
			come down tightly packed but if you focus your fire and use
			your shields wisely you should be able to avoid them.


9. PowerUp Descriptions

   When some enemies are destroyed like big asteroids or spacetrains,
   they will drop Powerups that you can collect to become stronger.

   Wheel - quicker movement speed

   Shell - ShellShot weapon
   (good all-around weapon)

   Flame - FlameShot weapon
   (powerful)

   Wave  - WaveBeam weapon
   (great defensive weapon and can hit enemies
	lower to the ground when powered up)

   ScatterShot - ScatterShot weapon
   (very effective but best used in short bursts
    as it overheats easily)

   Combat Droid - Once collected these droids will help
				  fire at the enemies and protect your cannon.

   Ice Shard - cools down the temperature gauge

   SuperShield - Gives back 1 Supershield (maximum of 3 at a time)

   BonusEmblem - When shooting many enemies with sustained hits
				 you will build up a combo bonus. When the combo
				 chain is broken, bonus emblems will rain from the
				 sky. Collecting 100 of these will gain you an
				 extra cannon!

10. You can quit playing by selecting "Quit" from the titlescreen menu.

11. - Contact Information -

	Email: realstar@shaw.ca
	Website: http://members.shaw.ca/realstar


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Changes:
V1.1 (June 5 2010)
- Fixed joypad remapping which wasn't working in last release
- Fixed a timer bug that caused various gameplay issues
- Fixed a problem that could cause a wave to never end
- A few small adjustments made to gameplay balancing
- On the fly overlay switching more stable press 'O' key
- Esc key exits game now

V1.0 (October 24 2009)
- Ported code back to MorphOS from iPhone version
- Added gamepad remapping feature

V0.8f (April 3 2007)
- Added MP3 sound playback
- Added Custom MP3 playlist feature
- Added on-the-fly switching to overlay mode
- The game now saves all relevant user preferences
- Improved startup time
- Added 2 new full levels
- Added VRock enemy
- Added Vine enemy
- Added Insector enemy
- Added InsectorX enemy
- Added BigInsector boss
- Added WarpGear enemy
- Added RockCore boss
- Made Mines explode 8 ways instead of 3
- Added code to test speed of functions
- Weapons do more damage when powered-up now
- Weapon and Speed only drop 1 notch now when cannon is destroyed
- Tweaked gameplay challenge a bit
- Correct world names are now shown under pointer on mapdisplay
- Endian fix from interm version should ensure proper colors
- Fixed several bugs - more stable!
- Some general code cleanup

V0.7f (Sept. 16 2006)
- Changed to freeware distribution with donation suggested
- Many bugfixes leading to more stability
- Added spinning typea enemies
- Added mines that block shots and explode when destroyed
- Added hopper enemy
- Added Droid type powerups
- Weapon and Speed power up quicker for faster gameplay
- Arrow added under current indicator positions
- Added continue feature
- Optimized gfx functions a bit

V0.6d
- First public demo release!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HyperCannon is Copyright © 2003-2010 Kelly Samel
and may not be distributed for commercial use without explicit
permission from the Copyright holder.  All Rights Reserved.

