Demonbreed: The Dark Ones Heritage

(This is the story of the game that will be done
with the NEW version of the engine, the one with
the 640x480 Display. Newone.iff is a screenshot
of this completely recoded engine).

More information will probably soon be available
on http://www.informatik.uni-stuttgart.de/fachschaft/adressen/haeuser.html

The boy called Demonbreed by most people was found in a burned out
house, near the not any more recognizable bodies of two adults,
who might be his parents.

In the unenlightened 18th century the boy is shunned by the superstitious
people in German Blackwood, where he is living. Rumours are rising
about dark rites that had been practiced in the house where he was
found, and it is said that the boy would be demonic offspring,
born to once rule the world in the name of the satanic creature
that should be his father. Noone ever gave the boy a real name,
as that rumours started only hours after the kid was found, and
so "Demonbreed" became his name.

And it seems, as if some of the prejudices of the people are not
completely unrealistic. Demonbreed comes out to be a very intelligent
kid, five years ahead as to his age group. In his 14th year, he is
said to tend to aggresive behaviour and he has no friends. He is
feared even by adults and in his face most people watch something...
evil.

Demonbreed hurt some people, who did not do like he wanted, with fists
and a knife, and he is said to be arrogant and a "i-know-everything"
style person. On the other hand, he claims not being able to remember
his attacks on other people and he swears he does not want to harm
somebody.

One of his teachers then called a famous doctor to check the boy's
mental health. Demonbreed grew very angry, as he heared of this,
and nearly went mad yelling at the people in the orphanage, where
he is living and throwing things.

As Demonbreed finds to himself again, he is in his room, but something
is going fatally wrong. He is over and over stained with blood, and
the furniture is destroyed. As he leaves his room, he notices dead
bodies everywhere, and with fear he recognizes that the blood on
his hands is not his own.

From now on, you, the player, will control Demonbreed. In order to
solve this game, you will have to convince other people that
Demonbreed is no mad murderer. You will have to find out about
the boy's dark secret that he himself does not know, and you will
have to enter a parallel world of Earth, where Forces of Magic
and Evil rule the world, forces that want to consume the soul
of Demonbreed to use him as vessel to rule this world in the name
of Evil. You will learn about Demonbreeds talent for dark magic
and you will have to convince his fellow people, that he is no
minion of the dark forces, nevertheless.

But, to be honest, till the end, you can't know, if Demonbreed truely
is innocent, if it is not YOU who is the villain in this mysterious
story, and that the forces of black magic won't use the boy for
their own evil plans...


