Short:    UFO - Enemy Unknown - ECS - Money Cheat!
Author:   dhusby@intergate.bc.ca (Dean Husby)
Uploader: dhusby@intergate.bc.ca (Dean Husby)
Type:     game/patch


Other Patch Files I've done:
	Gloom Deluxe - Cybergraphics ECS users get Full Colour! (Fixes Gloom bug)
	(game/patch/gloomcolourfix.lha)

My System:
	Amiga 3000
	2 Chip, 8 Fast RAM
	340megs of HD's
	GVP I/O Extender
	IOMEGA ZIP: Drive
	CyberVision64
	DELL HDDD

	Being an A3000 owner, I'm stuck with ECS software unless it supports CyberGfx.  
With Team17 and many soft Co's still not supporting gfx cards my entertainment selec-
tions are severely limited. So when I found 'UFO - Enemy Unknown ECS', I was ec-
static!.

Now, it is missing night and day (a plus for play-a-bility really) and some of the anima-
tions, (They made it for an A500. God only know's why, as it needs power to be play-
able).  but it's playable none the less.  Some of the graphics really lack in colour, but 
hey, it's ECS and I AM being able to play it.

	It's being put out by  PowerPlus  , made by MicroProse and I bought it from Greg 
Scott at National Amiga.  (See Amiga Web DIRECTORY for his Great ad)

	Now down to the part you've all been waiting for.
           -----------------------------------------------------------------
UFO is hard,
Damn hard...

	There are a host of cheats and editors for the AGA version of UFO/X-Com but 
they don't work with the ECS version. It's been redone and all the little game-save files 
are now saved into two files.  One with the saved game name and the other one is a file 
that remains the same size no matter what changes. (As far as I can tell)

	Finding out that the AGA cheats did not work on the ECS version sent me into a 
frenzy, attempting to E-Mail all the cheat creators to ask them to make a change to their 
editors to allow me to play without any money restraints.  Then, not being able to wait 
for any replies I sent out looking for the money location myself.  I figured it MUST be in 
HEX, as DEC wouldn't be efficient.

Well, I found it...

Here's how to do it yourself.  It's very easy.

I used ZAP, but NEWZAP should work too.

Load the file 'Savegame.sav' into ZAP (or equivalent) [from any of the 10 game saved 
dirs]  This file should be  45299bytes.

Goto file byte location    42881  (Zap lets you use  RAMIGA G to hop to the right spot)

And replace what's there with this.          7fffffff

[one 7 and seven lowercase  F's   (f)]

Save it and enjoy!  (Make a copy of the file BEFORE you do this, just in case you make 
a mistake. If you go any higher it goes negative and that's useless.

Do this as often as you like!

ALSO: If you are too timmid to do this edit yourself, I've included a Saved Game file 
that's fresh.  Just copy both files into any of the 10 saved game dirs and you can play it 
with 2xx billion!

Note to programmers: If anyone would like to make this into a file EXE  cheat please 
send me a copy!  Thanks (My E-Mails at the top of the file)

That's it.  With more fiddling I could work in 255 of all items and research but I just 
wanted to make the game a little easier, not cheat all the fun out of the game.

TFM


