Title : Sushi68K  - "Surgeon's Ultimate Speedup Hacks, Inc"          (exclusively for 68K Amigas)  

Author: surgeon (http://users2.50megs.com/surgeon/quake/index.htm)  
  
  
This PAK uses very small (104 bytes) NON-LOOPED wav's in place of ambient  
sounds. Therefore some errormsg printing in quake.exe has to be turned off.  
I have supplied patches which does this and makes it possible to enable  
fullbright and ambient rendering in deathmatch + the polyblend and bf hack  
(clear view in liquids and pickup flash removal).  
- Regarding r_drawflat and r_fullbright, see sushi_tips.txt

The patches are for clickBOOM's normal and 060 optimized .exe  
A lot of sounds in quake have been replaced with smaller ones in order to  
minimize the CPU time spent on processing sound.  
Many mdl's have been replaced with null mdl's (torch, gibs) or substituted  
and the player.mdl has been modified to get rid of dead corpses.  
These modifications gives a huge speedup in deathmatch, regardless of  
the server you are connected to, since all speedups are client-side.  
  
It works with normal quake and all server-side modifications + rocketarena.  
  
In short: If you are playing deathmatch on 68K Amiga, this is a must  
 - although it's considered cheating!!  
  
  
Installation:  
The supplied pakfile (pak0.pak) must be placed in your preferred gamedir.  
If you already have pakfiles there, say a pak0.pak and pak1.pak, rename the  
supplied pak to pak2.pak. (just make sure it's the highest numbered pak).  
Then you have to patch your exe. Run the Sushi68K script by doubleclicking  
it's icon. Locate your quake.exe (normal or 060 version), and when prompted,  
select the appropiate .pch file. Then type the name of your new exe.  
The patcher will exit, and the new exe should be used for starting quake.  
The exe doesn't need the pakfile, and can be used for every breed of quake.  
Make sure to make the following alias in your autoexec.cfg:  
(if you don't have one in your gamedir, edit one.)  
  
alias bf ""  
  
The reason for this is that the bf command doesn't exist because it's  
disabled in the exe, and when sent from progs.dat quake now thinks that it's  
a line of text. The empty alias makes sure that "bf" is not printed on your  
screen every time you pick up some stuff.  
  
  
That's all folks - enjoy!  
  
- surgeon  
