
I forgot to include source cone of bsp to map convertor BSP2MAP v0.11 in
BSP2MAP.ZIP. so it is now here.

BSP2MAP v0.11
bsp to map convertor.

BSP2M011.ZIP - bsp to map convertor, source code.

--------------------
this program reads bsp file, and generetes map file from it.
it is just version 0.1 and is not wery good.
my goal was not to make realy usable convertor, but just to proof that it is possible.
still its usable for small (and maybe even medium) maps.
method used in this program is wery simple: it creates one brush
for each face found in bsp file, so resulting map file contains much
more brushes than original. so after converting big levels back to map it
contains too many brushes for QBSP to handle and for most editors to load.
there is problems with water/slime/lava brushes
also it sometimes generates "brush with duplicate plane" and "brush plane with no normal"

its not good to create brush for each face, but its was easy (i spent
only 2 days to write this program). it must connect brushes together
and use all other information found in bsp file unfortunatly i know
nothing about BSP trees, Nodes, Leaves.
im not sure that i will continue work on this program, probably will not.

i tested it with:
start.map had 4900 brushes (4096 is max for QBSP)
dm4.map had 1800 brushes
dm5.map had 2060 brushes and i succesfully QBSPed these maps and played in Quake.


Notice
--------------------
this program contains some functions from Carmack's QBSP (from qbsp/map.c).
to compile this program you also must to have quake utils (files common/bspfile.c,
common/cmdlib.c, common/mathlib.c and corresponding .h files (which are not
included in this package)). you can get quake utils
from: ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/source/qutils.zip

you are free to use this program
you are free to use/modify/compile source code
you can do anything you want with it


Credits
--------------------
id Software, for Quake

John Carmack, for QBSP source

Olivier Montanuy,  Brian Martin, Raphaël Quinet, Nicholas Dwarkanath
John Wakelin, David Etherton, for Unofficial Quake Technical Specifications 3.4

peoples on rgcq.editing for saying that it is absolutely impossible to
convert bsp to map, w/o them i would never wrote this program

--------------------
If you like it, hate it, have comments, questions, suggestions, etc etc
please email me at ppsaikne@mail.vernet.lv.

Janis Jagars (Disastry on Quake and IRC)

Thanks!
