NOTE FROM THE AUTHORS: THIS MANUAL WAS WRITTEN FOR THE ORIGINAL STANDARD
AMIGA DISC VERSION...!

HOI - THE STORY

Once upon a time, on a planet in one of the endless solar systems, a
nation of green creatures lived in peace with each other. Their habits
were comparable with the so called humans on a planet named Earth. The
difference was, that the green ones no longer possessed the unnecessary
negative side of the humans. Each had his own talent and liked to help
an other with it. Who could not value the satisfaction of an other's
gratitude? There was no need for cheating.
The main directive was to evolve to perfection by gaining wisdom and
passing it through to the next generation, who could add their
experiences.
To enjoy life as much as possible, entertainment was created in many
different forms. Aided by technology, computer generated games were
developed, in which reality was pursued to increase excitement.
However, there was one drawback in the eco system of the green
beings...
The males and females were living separately on the opposite sides of
the small world. The only way for them to join each other was to defy
the so called Madlands, where danger lurked in numerous different
incarnations. Traditionally, the male had to approach the female, so
many brave green ones sacrificed their innocent lives in their quest
to discover the only absent emotion called real love.
Your mission is to guide a noble green youth named Hoi to his ultimate
aim, the biggest mistery in life: a woman...!
Good luck!

HOI - THE SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
All you need to enjoy Hoi is an Amiga, 524288 bytes of RAM (so Amiga
1000 owners with 256 Kb: shame on you, heh heh!), a decent joystick,
a mouse, a lot of potato chips (cheese-onion) and cans of Coke.

HOI - THE FORMALITIES
After booting disc number one, a screen appears, in which you must
select between the two possible Amiga set-ups: the European P.A.L.
system or the American N.T.S.C. system. You can also choose to skip
the introduction sequence and load the title sequence at once.
You can escape from the intro animation, the introduction
picture/music and the title sequence/high score table by pressing the
good old joystick button.
At the title sequence/high score list hold down the right mouse button
to freeze the screen. Please be sure to keep in mind that your entered
name will only be saved to the high score table when you restart
playing by pressing the joystick button, to minimalize disc access.
If you want to reset the high score table to the default names, keep
your right mouse button pressed while loading it.
To exit the end sequence when you have finished the game (after a year
of practice, har har!), press the left mouse button. To repeat the end
sequence, press your joystick button.

HOI - THE GAME
As it is up to you to prove your game skills, we will only supply you
with real useful information...

CONTROLS
You take control of Hoi, using a joystick in port two. Push the
joystick left to move Hoi to the left and right to move him to the
right. Pull the joystick towards you to descend stairs. Push the
joystick forward to jump up and to ascend stairs.
Push the stick forward and right simultaneously (North-East, seen from
above) to jump forward right and push it forward and left to jump
forward left. You can control Hoi during his jump.
The fire button must be used at some locations in the game, most of
which are explained later on.

LIVES
Hoi is blessed with nine lives at the start of the game. Additional
lives can be gained by collecting the seven hidden items in level one,
two and three (e.g. the seven black diamonds in level one). Other ways
of earning a new Hoi are completing the hidden bonus games (only to be
discovered in level two and three) and remembering all nine colors at
the sub-game in level four (to be discussed later on).
When you have lost every life the game is over. But not all hope is
lost... if you have managed to reach level two, you are given the
possibility of restarting at this level at the cost of two lives. You
will not be able to replay level two with the full nine lives, but
with seven Hois. You can also just go for level one again, with all
nine Hois. The system is progressive (to combine comfort with
difficulty): when you have lost all your lives in level three, you can
make your choice between starting in level one with nine lives, in
level two with seven lives or in level three with five lives.
Ultimately, re-access to level four after a game over can only be
realized with no more than three lives. If you think you can re-enter
level four with more lives when you play level ((one, )two and) three
first, be our guest.

LET'S PLAY!
Each level can be completed the 'easy' way, just go for the shortest
route to reach the end of the stage, or the hard way, find the objects
mentioned above to receive three bonus lives.
Levels are stuffed with all kinds of moving objects, most of which are
fatal when touched. An example of a useful moving object is an
elevator.
At certain places you can walk across a regeneration pod, where you
will be reincarnated when you lost a life.
Handles must be used to perform certain necessary actions. They can be
activated by pressing the joystick button. When a handle is toggled,
the camera will show the effect and return to Hoi.
At certain places in the game, a "camera pod" can be found. With this
you can throw a pod (one at a time) in a desired direction, which will
be followed by the camera, in order to take a look at your direct
surroundings. Throwing is performed by pressing the joystick button.
Move Hoi to increase the throwing power.
Numerous bonuses are spread throughout the levels in many different
shapes, like fruit and gems. Collect them to raise your score.

On the keyboard, press "F10" to quit the active game. "P" toggles
between pause and activity and the "Esc" key causes the immediate
death of one Hoi.

NECESSARY KNOWLEDGE OF THE INDIVIDUAL LEVELS
If you got stuck at the end of level two, remember that there is a
fire button on your joystick...!
Try to find the hidden bonus game. The directive of this bonus game is
simple (?): shoot the dynamite, not the balloons...! If you can stand
the pressure for three minutes, you will be rewarded with an extra
life when you return to the main game.

In level three Hoi is "blessed" with the power to discharge
destructive projectiles at certain locations (like the first area).
You can lock yourself in at the puzzles. To try again, you must
sacrifice a life by pressing the Escape key.
When you succeed in finding the hidden bonus game, try to zap as many
aliens as you can...! When you have unscrupulously wasted 100
predators, you will gain an extra life and from then on you can earn
an additional life each 50 points.

In level four you can pick up and drop some necessary items like the
time-bomb by pressing the button. To activate the time-bomb at a
desired spot, hold the button down for a moment and release it. The
bomb will then explode in a few seconds at the place of release.
To make use of the oxygen device, just pick it up and it will supply
you with fresh air when you are diving. Alternatively, if you hold
down the joystick button for a moment while carrying the oxygen
device, it will cause a useful increase of moving speed at the price
of your unlimited air supply.
In the bonus game with the giant clog, try to catch as many fish as
you can (heh heh...!). Catching mines will cause your score to shrink
and the water level to ascend, threatening Hoi. The water level will
also move up when you fail to catch a fish.
At a certain moment you will reach a row of rectangles which will
display a range of colors for a short period. By pressing the fire
button while standing on the corresponding platforms on top of the
squares you can reconstruct the color range. When you are finished,
press your button on the separate platform below the range and the
program will verify your effort. If you have succeeded, you will be
presented with a new color in the growing range to memorize and so on.
Every successful round will cause an extra platform to appear to the
right. When you have "built" six platforms in all, you can reach the
higher region you need to enter to proceed. You can also choose to go
on and try to remember up to nine colors for an extra life.

Level four is split in two parts: the water level and the psychedelic
grand finale ("level five"). This wild final quest could be harmful to
epileptics, so please be warned...!

IMPORTANT GENERAL NOTES
Hoi is not capable of falling down too far, so be careful...!

Always remember not to judge anything by its appearance and not to
trust anything. Some things look harmful while being harmless and some
dangerous traps are treacherously camouflated.

Some objects require a precise timing for Hoi to proceed. Some
locations ask for an accurate timing for Hoi to jump from one spot to
another. Some situations require a fast reaction and/or a good memory
to save Hoi's life. Stay sharp!

If you are standing on a spot (e.g. on an elevator) and you cannot see
where to go to, try moving a little more to the edge of your location
or try to jump into the desired direction and move back while you
still can. The camera will have moved a little.

Please try not to lose your temper when things do not go the way you
want to. Do not forget the game was created to entertain you, not to
frustrate you. When your blood pressure reaches dangerous heights,
just turn off the @#$%^&*! machine, have a drink and remember that you
can chat up a girl in the bar around the corner while Hoi still needs
to encounter his first one (and only?)...!

Write us a letter if you like and brilliant suggestions for an
eventual sequel are always welcome...! When it proves to be a useful
idea, you deserve a special mention in Hoi II ("The Morning
After...!"), of course.

THE CREDITS
Programming and design by Reinier van Vliet;
graphics, design and manual by Metin Seven;
music and sound effects by Ramon Braumuller.

C U !
