Good mornin' dear reader...!

For those bold owners of Hoi that have pulled every little hair out of
their head because of that certain spot where they got killed for the
230771st time, here are some helpful tips from the creators of the game...


A number of warps is spread throughout the levels. Some of them are
explainable...

Level one:

Right from the start, do not collect any bonus object until you have
reached the worm in the second tree. Now fall from the left side of the
branch and move to the right side of the tree-trunk while you are falling.
If you do this right, you will fall onto an (otherwise unreachable) bonus
gem. The first phase of the warp is now activated, which causes you to be
invincible. Fall down to the ground and collect some bonus objects on the
ground to activate the actual warp. The warp will take you near the end of
level one.

Jump on the first elevator platform to the right of the worm in the second
tree. Now wait until the elevator platform has reached its highest
position and jump up.

In the "sub-cave", go to the switch to the right of the black diamond
direction sign and switch it at least twenty times.

Level two:

Walk to the left side of the ground, after the fire-barrels, until you can
not walk any further. Now just wait for a while et voila...!

Level three:

Only get the four little black diamonds in the top niche of the first block
with the snake circling around it. Now move down to the left of your
starting cabin.

Level four:

Get the time bomb from the left and return to your starting position. Now
blow up the first cactus.


The manual mentions bonus games which are to be found in level two and
three. Allow us to guide you to them...

Level two:

Go to the right side of the spot where two workers are cross-walking and
one worker is drilling (just before the rotating green balls). You will
see a horizontally moving elevator platform which is connected to a
vertical line. Enter the platform and pull down your joystick. The
platform will move down. Be careful not to fall off the platform (it will
still be moving horizontally as well) and leave it when you have reached
the area below. To the right you will see an odd cabin. This is the
transportation device to... the first secret bonus game...!

Level three:

This one is a bit easier to discover. Solve half of the second block
puzzle after the labyrinth (in other words, collect the notes) and enter
the cabin at the right end of the lowest shaft.


Finally, here are some general tips which will hopefully help you to
survive...

If you are at the edge of a location and you can not see where you have
to go, make use of Hoi's strong tail to go go just that bit further to
the edge. If you have still got problems to find your way, jump in the
direction you want to look and return from the air to your previous
position in time. You are back where you are, but the screen will have
scrolled a bit in the desired direction. Finally, at certain positions,
like the towers in level one, you can release "camera pods" to discover
the right direction, after you have collected the camera pod token. (too
bad the reviewer of the fine English magazine "The One" did not see the
light of the camera pod, as he mentioned the lack of it as Hoi's only
flaw -sniff-. It goes to show that reading the manual before you play is
good for your health...!).

And do not forget... in Holland we have an expression as follows: hasty
speed is seldom good. In other words: Hoi has to conquer his enemies by
being careful, not being Sonic...! By the way, did you know that Hoi and
Sonic the Hedgehog were actually finished simultaneously, in 1991...?
Too bad Hoi encountered the wrong publisher first, while Sonic was under
the wings of Sega. Have fun with the game and look out for our sequel
to Hoi, which will be developed specifically for the A.G.A. machines...!

'bye!
 
Team Hoi
