                               SKID ROW

                               presents

                     Gateway To The Savage Frontier 
 
                          Adventurer's Journal 
 
INTRODUCTION: 
The First Night in Yartar 
 
   "We had thought this was going to be a routine mission, guarding a 
caravan of mithril travelling from Citadel Abdar in the far north.  But no 
sooner did we sign on to provide protection than the dwarves' King Harbromm 
himself called us to the top of the tallest tower in the fortress. 
 
   "Now, Harbromm, he talks through his great whiskers and it sounds like a 
bellows blowing, but this particular morning he didn't have to say much to 
get our attention. 
 
   "He pointed to the northeast, and we looked towards a brown cloud 
floating above one of the mountain valleys.  'Do you see that?  It is 
dust,' he said, his voice rising.  'It is the dust of tens of thousands of 
the Ice Mountain Orcs as they march from their caves towards the cities of 
the south.' 
 
   "But that always happens this time of year,' someone replied.  'Orc 
raiding parties are always attacking Sundabar or ambushing caravans from 
Silverymoon.' 
 
   "The old dwarf nodded.  'Aye, that's true.  But turn your eyes to that 
dark cloud once more.  Is that the dust of a thousand raiders?  I think not.  
Two thousand?  By no means.  If we are lucky, perhaps only two thousand 
times ten.' 
 
   "'Guard well this caravan, adventurers,' he told us.  'Evil is again 
awakened in the Realms, and its eyes and hands - and daggers - will be all 
around you.' 
 
   "Well, after that speech you can imagine how worried we all were.  Every 
step of the way we scanned the horizon, looking for those dark brown clouds.  
We didn't see any, but we sure heard a lot of stories.  Seems like everyone 
in the northern Realms knows someone who's seen at least a dozen trolls or a 
hundred orcs skulking across their fields." 
 
   A burly fighter by the bar called out, "So you came all this way with 
such a fine-looking sword and never had a chance to quench it with orcish 
blood?"  His voice dripping with sarcasm, he mimicked a dancer tiptoeing 
across a stage.  "Perhaps you didn't want a fight.  Perhaps it's just a 
child's toy with a fine golden handle attached to it for show!" 
 
   Before his words had even crossed the room the sword in question was 
drawn, its gleaming blade flashing even in the dim light of the tavern.  
The room went silent as they waited to see if we'd attack the 
blustering fool.  After a moment of hesitation the sword was sheathed 
again.  "This sword is saved for orcish blood," we called back to the 
drunken fighter.  "We do not care to soil it with yours." 
 
   The man looked at us, thought for a minute, realized he had been 
insulted and started to cross the room.  Hesitating, he looked around.  
To his surprise, none of his companions were crossing with him.  He started 
to admonish them, call them to battle, but the words were stilled in his 
throat. 
 
   A tall, thin, black-caped man was sitting in the corner, and he shook 
his head one time.  The drunken fighter dropped his eyes to the floor, 
muttered something, then turned and left the tavern.  Several others 
followed. 
 
   There was another moment of awkward silence.  The man in the corner 
nodded, and the waitress appeared with a heaping tray, crying "More for 
everyone, it's on the house!" 
 
   We all surged forward for our share, and the rest of the evening was 
full of great fun and storytelling. 
 
IMPORTANT FEATURES OF THE SAVAGE FRONTIER 

GATEWAY TO THE SAVAGE FRONTIER covers a wide geographical area, ranging 
from the coast of the Trackless Sea in the west to the edge of the Great 
Desert in the east.  Most of the population of this area lives in the towns 
and cities, with farming communities clustered around the built-up areas. 
 
Towns and Cities 

Yartar is where you start the game and will serve as a convenient home base.  
A trading town located on the River Surbrin just north of where it joins 
the Dessarin, it lies at the junction of the river and the Evermoor Way, 
one of the two primary east-west trading routes in the region. 
 
Ascore is no longer a city at all.  Once a thriving dwarven seaport when 
the Great Desert was the Narrow Sea, it shrank to nothingness when the 
waters receded and the land dried and turned to dust.  Travel here is very 
perilous and not recommended for any but the most experienced parties. 
 
Everlund is located on the overland route between Silverymoon and Yartar 
and prospers as a trading town due to its location. 
 
Llorkh lies on the ancient trade routes that follow the long path around 
the southern edge of the Great Desert.  Long a dwarven stronghold, the town 
has recently come under the rule of a human magic-user, Lord Geildarr.  The 
stories of what's going on in this mining and trading center are jumbled 
and contradictory, but none of them are good. 
 
Loudwater, with a population that includes many half-elves, lies in the 
southern part of the region.  Its fields are so green, and its walls so 
overgrown with vines that it almost seems to be part of the High Forest, 
which lies just to the north. 
 
Luskan, located on the northwest coast, is a city ruled by Northman sea 
captains who retired here years ago.  There are stories that its leaders 
are actually former pirates who continue to sponsor attacks on shipping 
and that other evil forces have allied with them to enforce their rule in 
the city.  Luskan is hostile to many of the other cities in the region - 
especially Neverwinter - and rumors of impending war surface periodically. 
 
Nesme, on the River Surbrin at the western edge of the Trollmoors, is a 
trading town.  Its old wooden stockade has seen more than one troll 
assault, and Nesme riders patrol to keep the area near the city clear of 
monsters. 
 
Neverwinter lies to the west of Neverwinter Wood, and is famed for its 
indoor gardens and fine craftsmen who can even craft magical weapons.  Its 
people are friendly to outsiders.  The Neverwinter River, which runs 
through the area, is warm even in the snows of winter, and no one knows 
why.  A magic shop - a rarity in the Savage Frontier - is also located 
here. 
 
Port Llast is a small town on the central coast.  Once a major seaport, the 
centuries have seen its decline until now stonecutting is its most 
important trade. 
 
Secomber, a quiet town in the southwest, is said to be home to an eccentric 
magic-user who continually creates clever new items and devices. 
 
Silverymoon, in the northeast area of the region, is a large city known for 
its magicians.  An invisible magic bridge spans the River Rauvin as it 
flows through the city.  A magic college and items shop are located here as 
well. 
 
Sundabar, in the far northeastern area, is a former dwarven stronghold now 
rebuilt by humans into one of the largest towns in the northern Realms.  It 
trades with dwarven miners to the north and with Silverymoon and Everlund 
to the west. 
 
Forests 

The High Forest dominates the center of the region.  Although its vast 
expanse is known to harbor peaceful as well as hostile creatures, 
traversing it is dangerous and should not be attempted until your party 
has grown very strong. 
 
Neverwinter Wood is likewise dangerous for travel.  Local legend has it 
that even raiding orc parties choose to go around the Wood rather than 
through it. 
 
The Trollmoors 

The Trollmoors, located in the north central area of the region, are a 
dangerous expanse of low, windswept, blighted hills.  As their name 
indicates, the local inhabitants are both unfriendly and dangerous. 
 
The Great Desert 

The Great Desert of Anauroch is a hostile area filled with vile monsters 
and weather that swings from bitter heat to biting cold in moments and is 
a place to avoid at all costs. 
 
Islands 

Gundarlun, and its capital Gundbarg, are inhabited by Northmen.  The 
island lies almost due west of Neverwinter, two days away by boat.  Their 
status as an important shipping and resupply port, however, has made the 
inhabitants far more tolerant of other peoples, and you will usually find a 
warm welcome when you visit. 
 
The Purple Rocks are a group of small, rocky, islands to the west of 
Gundarlun.  Little is known about them, but outsiders are not welcome 
there. 
 
Tuern is also inhabited by Northmen.  Its capitol of Uttersea is built into 
the side of a collapsed, extinct volcano.  Other volcanos on the island 
still spew out molten lava.  Its people tolerate outsiders but are by no 
means glad to see them.  There are reports of a recent meteorite strike on 
Tuern, and meteorite ore is a key ingredient in some kinds of magical 
weapons. 
 
CHARACTERS AND PARTIES 

You must have a party of adventurer Player Characters (PCs) to play 
GATEWAY TO THE SAVAGE FRONTIER.  For each character you must choose the 
following:  a Race, a Class, and an Alignment.  After you select these, the 
computer generates a set of Ability Scores that define your new character's 
natural strengths and weakness.  To build a party you must make a mix of 
characters that have the range of skill needed for success, and then band 
them together. 
 
Player Races

There are six races from which you may construct player characters, each 
with different talents and limitations.  Tables beginning on page 38
summarize the racial class limitations and ability score modifiers.  The 
following describes each race and tells which classes are open to them. 
 
Dwarves are a cunning race of sturdy workers and craftsmen.  They are 
especially resistant to magic and poison.  Dwarves receive bonuses when 
attacking man-sized giant-class creatures and are adept at dodging the 
attacks of larger giant-class creatures.  Dwarves can be fighters, thieves, 
and fighter/thieves. 
 
Elves are a tall, long-lived race.  They are nearly immune to sleep and 
charm spells and are adept at finding hidden objects such as secret doors.  
Elves also receive bonuses when attacking with swords and bows, although 
they cannot be raised from the dead.  Elves can be fighters, magic-users, 
thieves, fighter/magic-users, fighter/thieves, magic-user/thieves, and 
fighter/magic-user/thieves. 
 
Half-Elves are hybrids with many of the virtues of both humans and elves. 
Like their elf ancestors, they are resistant to sleep and charm spells and 
are adept at finding hidden objects.  Half-elves can be fighters, magic-
users, clerics, thieves, rangers, cleric/fighters, cleric/rangers, cleric/
magic-users, fighter/magic-users, fighter/thieves, magic-user/thieves, 
cleric/fighter/magic-users, or fighter/magic-user/thieves. 
 
Gnomes are shorter and slimmer than their dwarf cousins.  They are 
especially resistant to magic.  Gnomes receive bonuses when attacking man-
sized giant-class creatures and are adept at dodging the attacks of larger
giant-class creatures.  Gnomes can be fighters, thieves and fighter/
thieves. 
 
Halflings are about half the size of a human, hence their name.  They are 
especially resistant to magic and poison.  They can be fighters, thieves, 
and fighter/thieves. 
 
Humans are the most common player-race in the Forgotten Realms.  They suffer 
no level racial limitations or ability score modifiers.  Humans do have the 
disability of shorter life-spans than the other races.  This may be a 
problem if they are subjected to many Haste spells, which age the target 
one year.  They can be fighters, magic-users, clerics, thieves, rangers, 
paladins, and dual-class characters. 
 
 
Ability Scores 

Every character has six randomly generated ability scores as explained 
below.  These scores fall within a range determined by the race and class 
of the character.  The basic values range from 3 (low) to 18 (high) and 
there are tables of limitations, modifiers and bonuses starting on page
38. 
 
Depending on the character class, one or more of these abilities will be a 
Prime Requisite.  A prime requisite is an ability especially valuable to a 
given class.  For example, strength is key for fighters and wisdom for 
clerics.  Most characters receive bonus experience points when their prime 
requisite scores are 16 or greater. 
 
Non-human characters may have modifiers to the basic ability scores to 
reflect differences between the races.  Dwarves for instance, get a +1 
constitution bonus and may have a maximum constitution of 19 instead of 18. 
When a character is generated, all racial modifiers are calculated 
automatically. 
 
Strength (STR) is the measure of a character's physical power, muscle mass 
and stamina.  Fighter-type characters may have exceptional strengths 
greater than 18 that are indicated by a percent value (01, 02, 03 ... 98,
99, 00) following the base strength.  High strength increases a character's 
combat ability with melee weapons such as swords or maces.  Strength also 
determines how much a character can carry without becoming encumbered and 
slowed in combat. 
 
Intelligence (INT) is the measure of how well a character can learn. 
 
Wisdom (WIS) is the measure of a character's ability to understand the ways 
of the world and to interact with the world.  Clerics receive bonus spells 
for high wisdom. 
 
Dexterity (DEX) is the measure of a character's manual dexterity and 
agility.  Thieves especially benefit from high dexterity.  Dexterity 
affects how well a character can use ranged weapons (bows, darts, etc.),
when he moves in a combat round, and how difficult he is to hit in combat. 
 
Constitution (CON) is the measure of a character's overall health. 
Characters receive one extra hit point if their constitution is 15 or two 
points if it is 16.  Fighter-types (fighters, rangers, and paladins) 
receive additional bonuses for constitutions of 17 or 18.  A character's 
constitution also determines the maximum number of times that character 
can be raised from the dead and the chance of a resurrection attempt being 
successful.  Every time a character is successfully resurrected, 1 point 
of constitution is lost. 
 
Charisma (CHA) is the measure of how others react to a character. 
 
 
Character Classes

A character must belong to at least one character class.  Non-human 
characters can have more than one class at the same time.  Multi-class
characters have more playing options, but increase in level slower because 
experience is divided evenly among all classes. 
 
Clerics have spells bestowed on them by their deity and can fight wearing 
armor and using crushing (not edged or pointed) weapons.  Clerics must 
memorize their spells just as magic-users, but they do not use spell books. 
When Clerics gain a new spell level, they can automatically use any of the 
available spells for the new level.  The prime requisite for clerics is 
wisdom. 
 
Fighters can fight with any armor or weapons, but they cannot cast magic 
spells.  The prime requisite for fighters is strength. 
 
Rangers can fight with any armor or weapons.  They do additional damage 
when fighting giant-class creatures, but must be of good alignment and have 
ability scores of at least 13 in strength and intelligence and at least 
14 in wisdom and constitution.  The prime requisites for rangers are 
strength, intelligence and wisdom. 
 
Paladins can fight with any armor or weapons.  They are resistant to spells 
and poison, and can turn undead creatures as if they were a cleric two 
levels below their current level.  Paladins are also always surrounded by 
the equivalent of a Protection from Evil spell.  A Paladin may heal two hit
points of damage per level once a day and may Cure Disease once a week at 
1st-5th levels and twice a week a 6th-8th levels.  Paladins will not 
adventure with any evil characters.  Paladins must be of lawful good 
alignment and have ability scores of at least 9 in intelligence and 
wisdom, at least 12 in strength, at least 13 in wisdom, and at least 17 in 
charisma.  The prime requisites for paladins are strength and wisdom. 
 
Magic-Users have powerful spells, but can use no armor and few weapons.  
They can only memorize those spells available in their personal spell books 
or on scrolls.  Magic-users may add entries to their spell books whenever 
they go up in level or find scrolls with spells they can scribe.  The prime 
requisite for magic-users is intelligence. 
 
Thieves can fight with swords and slings, but are limited to leather 
armor.  In combat they do additional damage by 'back stabbing,' which is 
described in the Combat section.  Thieves also have special skills for 
opening locks and removing traps.  The prime requisite for thieves is 
dexterity. 
 
Multi-Class are non-human characters who belong to two or more classes at 
the same time.  Multi-class characters' experience points are divided 
among each of the classes, even after they can no longer advance in one or 
more of those classes.  Their hit points per level are averaged among 
the classes.  Multi-class characters gain all the benefits of all their 
classes with regard to weapons and equipment. 
 
Dual-Class are human characters who had one class for the first part of 
their career, and then changed to a new class for the remainder.  Once a 
character changes classes, he cannot advance in his old class.  Dual-class 
characters do not gain hit points and cannot use the abilities of the old 
class while their new class level is less than or equal to the old class 
level.  Once the character's level in his new class is greater than his 
level in his old class, he gains hit points according to his new class and 
may use abilities from both classes.  Human dual-class magic-users may not 
cast magic-user spells while they are wearing armor. 
 
 
Alignment

Alignment is the philosophy a character lives by and can affect how NPCs 
and some magic items in the game react to a character.  The possibilities 
range from believing strongly in society and altruism (lawful good) to 
being anarchistic and actively unpleasant (chaotic evil).  Alignment is 
presented in two parts:  World View and Ethics. 
 
World View

Lawful indicates that the character values the structure and rules of 
society. 
 
Neutral indicates that the character values both the individual and 
society. 
 
Chaotic indicates that the character values the individual over society. 
 
Ethics

Good indicates that the character tries to act in a moral and upstanding 
manner. 
 
Neutral indicates that the character leans towards "situational ethics," 
evaluating each set of circumstances. 
 
Evil indicates that the character acts without regard for others, or in an 
overtly malignant manner. 
 
Other Attributes 

Each character also has three important values that change as the game goes 
on: Hit Points, Experience Points and Levels. 
 
Hit Points (HP) represent the amount of damage a character can take before 
he goes unconscious.  A character's maximum hit points are based on the
hit dice for the character's class and level plus any adjustments for 
constitution. 
 
Note: 

Dice (d) is the term used to describe the range for a randomly generated 
number.  Dice are referred to by the range they represent.  A d6 has a 
range from 1 through 6, a d10 has a range from 1 through 10.  Hit Dice 
refers to the base range of hit points a character class may have.  For 
example a 3rd level fighter has a base of 3 d10 hit dice, or 3-30 hit 
points. 
 
A character gains a hit point bonus to each hit die if his constitution is 
over 14.  When a character takes enough damage that his hit points reach 0, 
he is unconscious.  If the character's hit points  drop to anything from -1 
to -9, he will lose 1 hit point per turn from bleeding until he is bandaged 
or dies.  If a character has -10 hit points or less, he is dead.  When you 
view a character, his hit points (HP) on the screen will never be displayed 
as less than 0. 
 
Experience Points (EXP) are a measure of what a character has learned while 
adventuring.  Characters receive experience points for actions such as 
fighting monsters, finding treasures, and successfully completing quests. 
The computer keeps track of experience, and when characters earn enough 
they may advance in levels.  See the Level Advancement Tables beginning
on page 42 for experience requirements. 
 
All characters start the game with 3,000 experience points.  This means 
that single-class characters start at 2nd or 3rd level. 
   
Levels are a measure of how much a character has advanced in his class. 
When they have enough experience points, characters may go to a training 
hall and receive the training required to increase in level.  Characters 
may only advance one level at a time.  If a character has gained enough 
experience to go up two or more levels since the last time he has trained, 
he will go up one level, and lose all experience in excess of one point 
below the next level. 
 
Example: 

A 4th level thief enters a training hall with 20,521 experience points 
(enough for 6th-level).  He will leave as a 5th-level thief with 20,000 
experience points - one point below 6th level.  Characters cannot train for 
new levels once they have reached their maximum levels allowed in GATEWAY
TO THE SAVAGE FRONTIER. 
 
 
Building a Successful Party

Forming a strong and adaptable party is a key to success in GATEWAY TO THE 
SAVAGE FRONTIER.  Up to six Player Characters (PCs) may be in a party - A 
party with fewer is less powerful and more likely to be eliminated by 
opponents. 
 
Include a variety of classes in a party to get a good mix of skills.  Here 
are two sample parties as examples: 
 
Sample party 1 - Single Class Characters: 
 
   1 Elf Magic-User 
   1 Human Paladin 
   1 Dwarf Fighter/Thief 
   1 Half-elf Ranger 
   2 Human Clerics 
 
This party is balanced for combat, and will advance quickly because most 
characters are a single class.  The magic-user can cast offensive spells 
and use wands.  The paladin has the benefit of Protection from Evil in a 
10' radius.  All characters in range of the effect get an AC improvement of 
two.  The dwarf fighter/thief offers the advantages of a thief (lockpicking 
and disarming traps) with the better armor and hit points of a fighter. 
Rangers do extra damage against giant type creatures and start with extra 
hit points.  Clerics are absolutely essential for valuable healing spells. 
 
Sample Party 2 - Multi-class Characters: 
 
   2 Half-elf Cleric/Magic-users 
   2 Elf Fighter/Magic-users 
   1 Dwarf Fighter/Thief 
   1 Human Paladin 
 
This party is much more flexible than the first, but will advance much more 
slowly because of the multi-class characters. 
 
Outfitting the Party

The following are some suggestions for outfitting your party in Yartar: 
 
o Fighter Classes:  Buy shields, splint mail, broad swords, long bows, and 
                    arrows. 
 
o Magic-users:  Buy quarterstaffs and darts. 
 
o Clerics:  Buy splint mail, shields, staff slings, and maces. 
 
o Thieves:  Buy leather armor, short swords, short bows, and arrows. 
   
Preparation Tips

Once the party has been outfitted, Encamp at an inn and ready your weapons, 
armor, and shields.  Then have all spellcasters memorize spells.  Finally, 
save the game before continuing. 
 
Combat

Adventurers must battle their way through many dangerous foes to complete 
the adventure.  The following sections offer some more information and tips 
for combat. 
   
Combat Map

Battle takes place on a tactical combat map that is a detailed view of the 
terrain that the party was in when the combat began.  This map is set up 
with an invisible square grid. 
 
Initiative 

Each round of combat is divided into 10 segments, and every character and 
foe acts on a specific segment based on Initiative.  Initiative is 
generated at the start of each combat round, and is modified by dexterity 
and random factors such as surprise.  Casting spells may take extra time to 
perform, so often a spell-caster will begin a spell on his segment but it
will not go off until a little later. 
 
Computer Control 

In combat you control the actions of PCs.  The computer controls the 
actions of monsters, NPCs, and PCs set to computer control with the 
QUICK command. 
 
Combat Ability 

Each character's ability in combat is defined by his AC, THAC0, and Damage. 
 
AC 

A character or monster's difficulty to be hit is represented by armor 
class (AC).  The lower the AC, the harder the target is to hit.  AC is 
based on armor and a dexterity bonus.  Some magic items, such as some 
bracers, also help improve AC. 
 
THAC0 

Ability to hit enemies in melee or with missile fire is represented by
THAC0.  THAC0 stands for To Hit Armor Class 0.  This is the number a 
character must 'roll' equal to or greater than to do damage on a 
target with an AC of 0.  The lower the THAC0, the better the chance to hit 
the target. 
 
Note: 

the generation of a random number is often referred to as a 'roll'.  In 
determining if an attack hit, the number generated is from 1 through 20. 
 
An attack is successful if the random number is greater than or equal to 
the attacker's THAC0 minus the target's AC.  THAC0 may be modified by 
things like range, attacking from the rear, magic weapons, and magic 
spells. 
 
Example:

A fighter with a THAC0 of 16 attacking a monster with an AC of 3 would
need to roll: (THAC0 16) - (AC 3) = 13+

But to hit a monster with an AC of -2 he would need to roll: (THAC0 16)
- (AC -2) = 18+

Damage 

Damage is the range of hit points loss the attacker inflicts and is based
on the attacker's strength, weapon type, and any magic bonuses the weapon
has.  The base damage for each weapon is summarized in the Weapons Table
on page 40. 
 
Some monsters take only partial or no damage from certain weapon types. 
Skeletons, for example, take only half damage from sharp or edged weapons, 
while some other monsters can only be damaged by magical weapons. 
 
Attacking 

There are two basic types of combat:  Melee and Ranged (or Missile).  The 
following describes each type and other rules governing combat: 
 
Melee Combat 

Melee combat is face-to-face fighting with weapons such as swords and 
maces.  Only when using melee weapons can characters receive strength 
bonuses.  During melee combat fighters can sometimes overpower several 
small foes, and thieves have opportunities to back stab. 
   
Ranged Combat 

Ranged combat is firing at distant enemies with weapons such as bows or 
darts.  A character with a missile weapon (bow, sling, etc.) may not attack 
when adjacent to an enemy.  Two arrows or three darts can be fired per 
turn.  When opponents get too close for ranged combat, characters must 
switch to melee weapons. 
   
Multiple Attacks (Sweeping)

When fighting small creatures, fighter-types (fighters, rangers and 
paladins) may 'sweep' through several weak opponents in one combat round.  
When a character attacks a weak target, he automatically sweeps all of the 
available weak opponents. 
 
Back Stabbing 

A thief back stabs if he attacks a target from exactly opposite the first 
character to attack the target.  The thief may not back stab if he has 
readied armor heavier than leather.  A back stab has a better chance of 
hitting the defender and does additional damage. 
 
Saving Throws 

Attacks such as poison or spells do not automatically have their full 
effect on a target.  Victims may get a Saving Throw to avoid some or all of 
the effect.  If the saving throw is successful, generally the target 
suffers either no effect or only half damage.  As characters gain levels, 
saving throws improve. 
 
Note: 

Some monsters have magical resistance which decreases their chance of being 
affected by spells. 
 
Combat Movement

The number of squares a character can move is affected by carried weight,
character strength, and the kind of readied armor.  A character's 
movement range is displayed on the View Screen and during the character's 
segment in combat.  Combat movement is important for both closing quickly 
with opponents (and stopping missile fire) and fleeing from battles that 
are too tough. 
 
Running Away 

A character may flee from the battlefield if he moves faster than all 
enemies, but not if he moves slower than any enemies.  A character has a 
50% chance to move off the battlefield if he moves as fast as the fastest 
foe.  Exception: if a character can reach the edge of the combat map 
without any of his opponents being able to see him, he may then flee 
successfully even though he is slower than his opponents. 
 
Returning to the Party 

A character that moves off the battlefield returns to the party after the 
fight is over.  If all active characters flee combat, any dead or 
unconscious characters are lost.  If a whole party flees, no one receives
any experience points for monsters killed before retreating. 
 
Combat Strategies

To succeed in combat, a skilled player deploys his party well, casts 
effective spells before and during combat, maneuvers his characters into 
advantageous positions and attacks using his most powerful characters and 
weapons. 
 
Deploying the Party 

When a battle begins, your party is automatically positioned based on the 
order list of the characters. Characters near the top of the order will be 
in the front lines and vulnerable to attack.  To change the starting 
deployment, change the party order from the Alter Menu while encamped.  
Shift the heavily armored fighters up the list and the vulnerable magic-
users and thieves towards the bottom.  Party order cannot be changed while 
in combat, although characters are free to move. 
 
Your party may be placed in a bad position at the start of a battle.  Get 
an idea of the situation, and move characters into position.  Sometimes 
the best strategy is offensive:  charging with fighters to close ground and 
stop enemy missile fire.  Other times the best strategy is defensive: 
moving your characters to anchor their flanks on an obstacle such as a 
wall or tree.  Setting up behind a doorway that your enemies have to move 
through makes for a very strong defensive position.  Always keep magic-
users and missile weapons safe behind the front line. 
 
Wounded Characters 

Characters who are seriously injured should be moved out of the front lines 
if possible.  Remember: if you move away from an adjacent enemy, he gets a 
free attack at your back and has an improved chance to hit. 
 
Stopping Ranged Attacks 

Missile weapons cannot be fired if there is an adjacent opponent.  To stop 
enemy missile fire, move someone next to the opponent.  If you want to fire 
missiles, keep away from the enemy.
 
Exploiting Enemies' Weaknesses 

Exploit your opponents' weaknesses by directing attacks against helpless, 
wounded or isolated foes.  Concentrate your attacks to eliminate one 
opponent rather than injure many (Exception: enemy spell casters).  A foe 
with one hit point remaining attacks as powerfully as an uninjured one. 
 
Spell casters cannot fire spells after they have taken damage in a round, 
and they lose any spells they are in the process of casting when they 
are hit.  Try to keep enemy spell casters under attack every round while 
protecting your own. 
 
After Combat

If one or more characters survive on the battlefield at the end of combat, 
the bodies of unconscious or dead party members stay with the party.  If 
the entire party flees from combat, all unconscious and dead party members 
are permanently lost.  If ALL the party members are slain, go back to your 
last Saved Game and try again from that point. 
 
MAGIC 

Magic is essential to the survival of the party.  Magic-users cast many 
powerful offensive and defensive spells.  Clerics cast healing spells to 
revive wounded characters as well as both defensive and offensive spells. 
A spell can exist in one of four forms: in a character's memory, in a 
character's spell book, in a scroll, or in a wand.  A spell-caster with a 
memorized spell can cast it using the CAST command.  Spells are memorized 
during rest while encamped.  Spells in scrolls or wands are cast with the 
USE command. 
   
Memorizing a spell takes 15 minutes of game time per spell level, plus a 
preparation period of four hours plus an additional two hours for 3rd level 
spells.  For example, 1st and 2nd level spells take a minimum preparation 
of four hours, while 3rd level spells take six hours. 
   
Example: 

To memorize two 1st level spells, one 2nd level spell, and one 3rd level 
spell would take:  (6 hours preparation) + (2 * 15 min) + (1 * 30 min) + 
(1 * 45 min) = 7 hours 45 min. 
 
Magic-Users 

When a magic-user trains for a new level, he selects a new spell to add to 
his spell book.  A magic-user can also scribe spells from identified 
scrolls if he is of high enough level to cast them.  A magic-user must cast 
a Read Magic spell or have a scroll identified in a shop before he can 
scribe (or cast) from it.  The scroll disappears after it has been scribed or 
cast. 
 
Clerics

Clerical magic requires no spell books.  All clerical spells of the 
appropriate level are always available to a cleric, the character need only 
memorize them.  Unlike magic-users, clerics can cast spells from scrolls 
without any preparation, but clerical scrolls also disappear after being 
cast. 
 
Tips on Magic 

Both clerics and magic-users may cast spells which assist the party in 
combat.  Preparatory spells, such as Bless or Strength, cast just before 
a battle can protect or strengthen characters.  Combat spells can be cast 
to damage foes during combat.  Healing spells can be cast either during or 
after combat to revive wounded comrades. 
   
Spells should be rememorized as soon as possible after they are used.  This 
is most likely to happen after combat.  When in camp, have your spell- 
casters memorize spells and select REST to allow them to imprint the spells 
for later use.  Selecting REST without choosing new spells has the spell- 
casters rememorize the spells they have cast since last resting. 
 
Note: 

Before resting, it is a good idea to save your game - especially after
tough combats.  Also, keep at least two separate saved games at all times 
and alternate between them.  This will allow you to go back to a save 
before that last, fatal battle. 
 
MAGICAL TREASURES

As you travel about and encounter the monsters and puzzles that stand 
between you and finishing your various quests, you will also find magical 
items to help you on your way.  You can find magic items in a treasure by 
doing a Detect Magic spell using the DETECT command.  To find out 
specifically what an item is, you must take it to a shop and have it 
identified. 
 
Some magic items are in reality cursed and can do great harm.  When a 
character readies a cursed item, a Remove Curse spell must be cast before 
the item can be dropped.  Some magic items, such as wands or scrolls, may
only be used by used by certain classes.  Others may not work at all if 
certain other magic items are also in use. 
 
Here are the descriptions of some items that you may find.  Remember: Some 
items are very rare, and you may not find all of them in your adventure. 
   
Wands generally will cast a set number of a given spell (for example 10 
Fire Balls or 15 Magic Missiles).  Only experimentation or paying to have 
them identified will tell what a wand does.  The USE command allows a 
character to cast spells with a readied wand. 
   
Potions may heal wounded characters, cause them to become hastened or 
invisible, or cause any number of other effects.  The USE command allows 
a character to drink a readied potion. 
 
Scrolls carry either clerical or magic-user spells.  A magic-user may 
use SCRIBE to permanently transfer a scroll into his spell book if the 
spell is of a level he can memorize.  Magic-users and clerics can both cast 
spells directly from scrolls with USE command, even if they could not 
otherwise memorize the spells.  Scrolls disappear after they have been 
used or scribed. 
   
Enchanted Armor and Shields are created by skilled craftsmen and then 
enchanted with protective spells.  The power of the magic on these items 
varies a great deal.  Enchanted armor has the great advantage of offering 
improved protection with less encumbrance than the same type of mundane 
armor.  To use these items, ready them from the Items Menu. 
 
Enchanted Weapons come in many sizes, shapes, and potencies.  Sometimes a 
weapon will add between one and four to your THAC0 and damage.  Other 
weapons may have other fantastic magical properties including extra 
bonuses against specific types of creatures.  Once a magic weapon has been 
readied from the Items Menu, the character will have it for all combats. 
   
Enchanted Adornments such as bracers, necklaces, periapts, and especially 
rings are favorite objects for magical enchantment. These items may have 
any number of magical properties.  Some items will help you AC, others may 
fire Magic Missiles, or offer protection from fire-based attacks.  Once one 
of these items has been readied from the Items Menu, a character 
automatically gains all effects.  The exception to this rule is that 
certain magical necklaces require the USE command to work. 
 
Enchanted Clothing can be such commonplace items of clothing as gauntlets 
or cloaks,  but they are imbued with powerful enchantments.  A wide variety 
of these items are known to exist.  To use these items READY them from the 
Items Menu. 
 
CREATURES OF THE SAVAGE FRONTIER 

The denizens of these regions are many and varied.  Here is a list of 
monsters you may encounter in your adventures.  Some of these creatures 
are extremely rare, and you may never cross paths with them at all. 
 
Ankhegs are burrowing monsters usually found in forests and farming areas. 
They resemble legged worms armed with wicked mandibles and sharply hooked 
limbs. 
 
Basilisks are reptilian monsters whose very gaze can turn to stone any 
fleshy creature. 
 
Boars (Wild) are a type of undomesticated swine with long tusks and mean 
dispositions. 
 
Bugbears are giant, hairy cousins of goblins.  They stand about 7' tall 
and are powerful warriors. 
 
Displacer Beasts resemble a six-legged puma with two ebony tentacles 
growing from behind its shoulders.  These beasts have the magical ability 
to displace their image about three feet from their actual body, making 
them especially tricky opponents. 
 
Dragons are some of the most powerful and dangerous of the monsters a party 
can encounter.  The older and larger the dragon, the more damage it can do 
and the harder it is to kill. 
 
Efreet are genies from the elemental plane of Fire.  These creatures are 
immune to all forms of fire, but can be hit by other magical attacks. 
 
Ettin look like giant two-headed orcs.  They have great strength and can 
wield two spiked clubs that inflict terrible damage in combat. 
 
Frog (Giant) resemble their smaller kin in everything but size.  Giant 
frogs have been known to swallow adventurers up whole. 
 
Ghouls are undead creatures who feed on the flesh of the still living. 
Their attack can paralyze all races of characters except elves. 
 
Giants vary greatly in power, intelligence, and tastes.  The following is
a list of the types of giants you are likely to encounter. 
 
Fire Giants are brutal and ruthless warriors who resemble huge dwarves and 
have flaming red or orange hair and coal black skin. 
 
Hill Giants are one of the smaller of the giant races, they are brutish 
hulks possessing low intelligence and tremendous strength. 
 
Gnolls are large, evil, hyena-like humanoids that roam in loosely organized 
packs.  They attack by overwhelming unwary victims with their numbers. 
 
Goblins are small, nasty humanoids - they would be of little concern 
except for their great numbers. 
 
Golems are magically created automatons of great power.  Golems can be 
constructed of flesh, clay, stone, or iron - all are dangerous. 
 
Griffons are half-lion, half-eagle avian carnivores.  Their favorite prey 
is horses and their distant kin (hippogriffs, pegasi, and unicorns). 
 
Harpies are wicked avian humanoids that prey upon nearly all creatures but 
prefer the flesh of humans and demihumans. 
 
Hell Hounds are other-planar creatures resembling wolves, but they can 
breathe fire and detect invisible enemies. 
 
Hobgoblins are fierce humanoid warriors.  They are intelligent, organized, 
and aggressive.  Many times lesser humanoids will band together under a 
hobgoblin leader. 
 
Lizards (Giant) are similar to their smaller kin in appearance and habit, 
although instead of eating insects, they prefer something more man-sized. 
 
Manticores are a strange mix with lions' torso and legs, bats' wings, spike 
tipped tails, and human heads.  They can fire volleys of spikes from their 
tails and have a great appetite for human flesh. 
 
Margoyles are stony monsters that are immune to normal weapons and can 
attack many times with their sharp claws and spikes. 
 
Medusae are hideous women-creatures with coiling masses of snakes for hair. 
They can turn a person to stone with their gaze. 
 
Mummies are a powerful form of undead.  They are driven by an unholy hatred 
of life. 
 
Ogres are large, ugly, foul-tempered humanoids.  Ogres generally attack 
with a spiked club. 
 
Orcs are one of the most common, and disliked, of the demihuman races.  
They are aggressive and warlike. 
 
Otyugh are scavengers armed with long tentacles that they use to scoop 
trash into their cavernous mouths. 
 
Owlbears are thought to be a hybrid created by some long-forgotten wizard. 
They have the body of a large bear, and the head and slashing beak of a 
giant owl.  Owlbears are vicious, evil tempered, and ravenous. 
 
Salamanders are natives of the elemental plane of Fire and so are immune to 
all fire-based attacks.  They are dangerous foes because of their evil 
nature and the fact that they can only be hit by magical weapons. 
 
Scrags, also called river trolls, live in waterways and are related to 
trolls.  They perhaps are the most feared of all troll-kind. 
 
Skeletal Warriors are a more powerful type of skeleton. 
 
Skeletons are one of the weaker types of undead.  These creatures are 
animated by evil wizards or clerics and are often used as guardians or 
warriors. 
 
Slugs (Giant) are huge, omnivorous mutations of the common garden pest. 
They attack by biting and can spit a highly corrosive acid. 
 
Snakes (Giant) are similar to their smaller kin and slay their prey with 
deadly venom.  Neutralize Poison counters snake bites. 
 
Spiders (Giant) are giant cousins of the small predator.  They attack with 
a poisonous bite. 
 
Squids (Large) are dangerous varieties of the smaller sea creature.  They 
are known to attack travelers on the Trackless Sea. 
 
Stirges are bird-like creatures that drink the blood of their victims. 
They are not terribly dangerous except in large numbers. 
 
Tigers are carnivorous predators that are sometimes trained for combat. 
 
Trolls are ravenous horrors found in almost all climates and locales.  They 
attack with their dirty, clawed hands and must be killed quickly because 
they regenerate hit points. 
 
Wyvern are distant relatives of dragons.  They attack by biting and using 
the poisonous sting in their tail. 
 
Zombies are mindless, animated undead controlled by evil wizards or 
clerics.  While more dangerous than skeletons, they move very slowly and 
can be damaged by holy water. 
 
SPELL DESCRIPTIONS 
 
First Level Cleric Spells 

Bless improves the THAC0 of friendly characters by 1.  Bless cannot affect 
characters who are adjacent to monsters when the spell is cast.  This is a 
good spell to cast before going into combat. 
 
Curse impairs the THAC0 of targets by 1.  The target cannot be adjacent 
to a party character or NPC. 
   
Cure Light Wounds heals 1-8 hit points (up to the target's normal maximum 
hit points). 
 
Cause Light Wounds inflicts 1-8 hit points of damage on the target. 
   
Detect Magic indicates which equipment or treasure items are magical.  
After casting the spell, view a character's items or Take treasure items - 
equipment or treasure preceded by an '*' or a '+' is magical. 
 
Protection from Evil improves the AC and saving throws of the target by 2 
against attackers of evil alignment. 
 
Protection from Good improves the AC and saving throws of the target by 2 
against attackers or good alignment. 
   
Resist Cold halves the damage and improves saving throws vs. cold attacks 
by 3. 
 
Second Level Cleric Spells 

Find Traps indicates the presence of traps in the character's path. 
 
Hold Person may paralyze targets of character types (human, dwarf, etc). 
You may aim a hold person spell at up to 3 targets (use the EXIT command 
to target fewer). 
 
Resist Fire halves the damage and improves saving throws vs. fire attacks 
by 3. 
 
Silence 15' Radius must be cast on a character or a monster.  That 
character or monster, and all adjacent to him, cannot cast spells for the 
duration of the spell. 
 
Slow Poison revives a poisoned person for the duration of the spell. 
 
Snake Charm paralyzes as many hit points of snakes as the cleric has hit
points. 
 
Spiritual Hammer creates a temporary magic hammer that is automatically 
Readied.  It can strike at range and does normal hammer damage.  Spiritual 
Hammers can hit monsters that may only be struck by magic weapons. 
 
Third Level Cleric Spells 

Bestow Curse reduces the target's THAC0 and saving throws by 4. 
   
Cause Blindness will blind one target.  This can only be cured by a Cure 
Blindness Spell. 
   
Cure Blindness removes the effect of the Cause Blindness spell. 
 
Cause Disease infects the target with a debilitating ailment that saps 
strength and hit points. 
   
Cure Disease removes the effects of disease caused by some monsters or by 
a Cause Disease spell. 
 
Dispel Magic removes the effects of spells that do not have specific 
counter spells.  This is a recuperation spell for any of the party that 
has been held, slowed, or made nauseous. 
 
Prayer improves the THAC0 and saving throws of friendly characters by 1 
and reduces the THAC0 and saving throw of monsters by 1.  This is a good 
spell to cast before going into combat.  Prayer is not cumulative with 
Bless or other Prayer spells. 
   
Remove Curse removes the effects of a Bestow Curse spell and allows the 
target to unready cursed magic items. 
 
First Level Magic-User Spells 

Burning Hands causes 1 hit point of fire damage per level of the caster. 
There is no saving throw. 
   
Charm Person changes the target's allegiance in a combat so that an 
opponent will fight for the caster's side.  It only affects character 
types (human, dwarf, etc). 
 
Detect Magic indicates which equipment or treasure items are magical.  
After casting the spell, view a character's items or Take treasure items -
equipment or treasure preceded by an '*' or a '+' is magical. 
 
Enlarge makes the target larger and stronger.  The higher the caster's 
level, the larger and stronger the target gets. 
 
Friends raises the caster's charisma by 2-8 points.  It is best cast just 
before dealing with NPCs. 
 
Magic Missile does 2-5 hit points per missile with no saving throw.  A 
magic-user throws 1 missile for every 2 levels (1 at levels 1-2, 2 at 
levels 3-4, etc.)  This spell damages any single target within its range 
unless the target is magic resistant or has certain magical protection.  
This spell casts instantaneously. 
 
Protection from Evil improves the AC and saving throws of the target by 
2 against attackers of evil alignment. 
 
Read Magic allows a magic-user to ready a scroll and read it.  This is
identical to having a scroll identified in a shop.  After casting Read
Magic, a magic-user may scribe the spells from a scroll if appropriate for 
his class and level. 
   
Shield negates enemy Magic Missile spells, improves the magic-user's 
saving throw, and may increase his AC. 
 
Shocking Grasp does 1-8 hit points of electrical damage, +1 hit point per 
level of caster. 
 
Sleep puts 1-16 targets (depending on hit dice of the targets) to sleep 
with no saving throw.  For example, up to sixteen 1 hit-die targets can be 
affected, while only one 4 hit-die target can be affected.  Targets of
5 or more hit-dice are unaffected. 
 
Second Level magic-user Spells 

Detect Invisibility allows the target to spot invisible creatures. 
 
Invisibility makes the target invisible.  The THAC0 of melee attacks 
against invisible targets is reduced by 4, and it is impossible to aim 
ranged attacks at them.  Invisibility is dispelled when the target attacks 
or casts a spell. 
 
Knock is used to open locks.  It can be cast from the door-opening menu 
if the active character has a memorized knock spell. 
 
Mirror Image creates a 1-4 illusionary duplicates of the magic-user to draw
of attacks.  A duplicate disappears when it is attacked. 
 
Ray of Enfeeblement reduces the target's strength by 25% + 2% per level of 
the caster. 
 
Stinking Cloud paralyzes those in its area of effect for 2-5 rounds.  If 
the target makes its saving throw, it is not paralyzed, but is nauseous and 
has its AC reduced for 2 rounds. 
 
Strength raises the target's strength by 1-8 points depending on the class
of the target. 
 
Third Level Magic-User Spells 

Blink protects the magic-user.  The magic-user 'blinks out' after he acts
each round.  Although the magic-user may be physically attacked before he 
acts each round, he may not be physically attacked after he acts. 
 
Dispel Magic removes the effects of spells that do not have specific 
counter spells.  This is a recuperation spell for any of the party that 
has been held, slowed, or made nauseous. 
 
Fireball is a magical explosion that does 1-6 hit points of damage per 
level of the caster to all targets within its area.  If the target makes 
its saving throw, damage is halved.  Fireball is a slow-casting spell and 
the spell's power demands that you target carefully.  Use the CENTER 
command to determine who will be in the area of effect. 
 
Haste doubles the target's movement and number of melee attacks per round. 
Haste has a short duration and you should wait until a fight is imminent to 
cast it.  Warning: characters age on year each time a haste spell is cast 
on them.
 
Hold Person may paralyze targets of character types (human, dwarf, etc). 
You may aim a hold person spell at up to 4 targets (use the EXIT command 
to target fewer). 
 
Invisibility, 10' Radius makes all targets adjacent to the caster 
invisible.  The THAC0 of melee attacks against invisible targets is reduced 
by 4 and it is impossible to aim ranged attacks at them.  Use this spell to 
set up a battle line while your enemies seek you out.  Characters lose 
invisibility if they do anything but move.  Some monsters can see invisible 
creatures. 
 
Lightning Bolt is a magical electrical attack that does 1-6 hit points of 
damage per level of the caster to each target along its path.  If the 
target makes its saving throw, damage is halved.  A lightning bolt is 4
or 8 squares long in a line away from the caster.  For best results, send 
the bolt down a row of opponents.  Lightning bolts also reflect off walls 
back toward the spell caster.  Targets adjacent or close to a wall may be 
hit twice by the same bolt. 
   
Protection from Evil, 10' Radius protects the target and all characters 
adjacent to the target.  The spell improves the AC and saving throws of 
those it protects by 2 against attackers of evil alignment. 
 
Protection from Good, 10' Radius protects the target and all characters 
adjacent to the target.  The spell improves the AC and saving throws of 
those it protects by 2 against attackers of good alignment. 
 
Protection from Normal Missiles makes the target immune to non-magical 
missiles. 
 
Slow affects 1 target per level of caster and halves the target's movement 
and number of melee attacks per round.  Slow can be used to negate a haste 
spell and only affects the side opposing the spell caster. 

                             JOURNAL ENTRIES 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 1 
A MIRROR MAP FROM THE HIGH WALL. 
 
* See JournalEntry1.IFF Picture * 
 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 2 
THE BLACK-ROBED RIDERS 
 
We backed up against the stone buttress at the end of the bridge, waiting 
to see what frightened everyone so badly. 
 
A moment later they appeared, two riders in long, black robes with hoods 
that hid their faces.  The came around the corner behind the Temple of 
Tymora, crossed the town square and pounded past us at the gallop.  We 
turned and watched the guards stand back as the two raced through the gates 
and out of the city. 
 
Slowly, the people in the square resumed their activities.  Only now, they
were all in a hurry to be somewhere else. 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 3 
THE BOAT REPAIRMAN'S STORY: 
 
"Well, funny you should ask.  See these three boats over here?  I found 
them just last week, one by one, washed up on the sand bar outside town." 
 
"See those holes in the sides?  I patched 'em up.  There were arrows in 
them, lots of 'em.  Plenty of blood on the floorboards, too, but I cleaned 
that all up." 
 
"Haven't found any boats like that north of town, but I've been looking.  
Maybe going north on the river's safer than going east." 
 
"I'll fix 'em up and sell 'em.  It gives me the shivers thinking about what 
happened to the people that were in 'em, but... the people who buy 'em will 
never know.  What they don't know won't hurt 'em." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 4 
THE FISHERMAN'S STORY: 
 
The large fish market was almost empty, although the lingering smell of the 
place told of better days. 
 
"How d'you like my sign?" the fisherman asked us, proudly.  "Carved it 
m'self, y'know! 'Course, could do it better.  Maybe now'd be a good time 
t'try.  What with all the talk o'trolls and orcs and all, fishermen ain't 
goin' far up river.  Ain't bringin' back much, neither" 
 
"Good time for wood carvin'," he sighed sadly. "Bad time for sellin' fish." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 5 
THE STOLEN REWARDS: 
 
A curse upon their filthy heads!  They've taken all we had, stolen 
everything save the clothes on our backs! 
 
"More! More for everyone!" the waitress cried out at the tavern last night.  
We looked at each other, shame-faced at having fallen for so old a trick. 
Someone slipped a little something in our food and we slept like contented
babies while the bandits stole us blind! 
 
All the gold earned on our last mission is gone.  We endured those dangers,
did our jobs and now are left with empty pockets!  Our heads could have 
festooned the end of an orcsish pike... all for nothing! 
 
They even took my fine magical sword with the gold braided handle, the one 
I used to slay the griffon at Longsaddle last winter.  What I would give to 
have it one more time, if only to skewer the slime who committed this 
atrocity! 
 
We still have the tiny purse of coins I kept beneath my pillow.  There 
isn't much, but it will be enough to buy new weapons and a few supplies.  
We need to find a new sponsor or a new mission quickly, to earn the money 
we need to live. 
 
Whatever mission we next accept, we will have a second quest to complete as 
well: to catch these thieves and exact payment for last night! 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 6 
THE GUARDS AT YARTAR: 
 
"We've been ordered that no one be allowed to leave the city for the rest 
of the day.  Travellers from the north report that many bands of trolls 
have been seen there, and some have been observed close to Yartar." 
 
"These alerts normally don't last very long.  If there's anything you need 
to buy at any of the stores here in town, this is a good time to do it." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 7 
MAP OF THE ISLAND FORTRESS. 
 
* See JournalEntry7.IFF Picture * 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 8 
THE STORY OF THE PRIESTESS OF WAUKEEN: 
 
"I never knew that a secret door led into the back of the temple like this! 
I'm only glad that you are friends instead of enemies!" 
 
"I'm sure the people who attacked you in the outer room were going to use 
the secret door to enter the temple and kill us all!  As sure as the market 
hawkers gather in the morning, they were sent here by the barbarians, and 
Longtresses herself.  All she wants is control of the city, and she doesn't 
care with whom she allies herself to get it!" 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 9 
THE WATERBARON'S WELCOME: 
 
"Welcome, adventurers!  I regret that all of your treasure and possessions 
have been stolen.  If the City Guards should recover any of your items they 
will be returned to you." 
 
"I also understand that you are in need of a commission, but I have nothing 
for you at this time.  However, Yartar is a busy town filled with many 
people from all corners of the Realms.  Perhaps in the streets you will 
find someone in need of help during these troubled times." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 10 
MIELIKKI'S FESTIVAL: 
 
All around us there was activity, with music of many lutes and the snap of 
a hundred banners flapping in the breeze. 
 
In the heart of the glade a chorus of young girls sang a blessing of the 
trees, and the birds seemed to echo back a happy, chirping refrain. 
 
People everywhere were walking hand-in-hand, talking softly and revelling 
in the beauty around them.  It was almost enough to make us forget the 
worries and dangers that had brought us here to Silverymoon. 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 11 
THE BARGEBUILDER'S STORY: 
 
"I hope this panic about armies of orcs and trolls ends soon.  We usually 
build two barges a month here.  Now no one wants to send goods up river 
unless they have to, and we have no new orders. 
 
"The river going east was always dangerous, but now going south is bad, 
too.  Of course, the High Forest is still far more dangerous than any other 
place in this part of the Realms. 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 12 
THE COUNCIL MEMBER'S STORY: 
 
"You may not care to listen to our sad tales, with your own horrid stories 
of orcish armies on the march, but here in Everlund strange things have 
been happening as well. 
 
"Many undead have appeared in the old part of the city to the north, 
livestock have been disappearing from the pens near the river, and even 
stirges have been so bold as to attack people in the streets. 
 
"What has our peaceful little town done to deserve such misery?" 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 13 
THE HARBORMASTER'S STORY: 
 
"I tell ye, young 'uns, the only reason that the Gallant Prince still be 
anchored here in Port Llast Harbor is we ain't got no one who's darned fool 
enough t'board'er and tow'er out t'sea. 
 
"We'd all heard she wa' missin', then Simon Hempwright the fisherman says 
he spied 'er adrift a mile off the coast, worm eat'n like she'd been a' sea 
a hundred years.  The young idiot towed 'er in an' tied 'er up, an' then he 
goes traipsing down below decks like she wa' some pleasure barge out o' 
Waterdeep. 
 
"Course, we never seen 'im no more after that, 'cept some say you can hear 
'is screams a' night way back in town." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 14 
LONGTRESSES ALARAUN'S STORY: 
 
"Please let me welcome you to Nesme.  We have just completed a very unhappy 
task.  I had to seize the city by force of arms to save it from the corrupt 
priests of Waukeen. 
 
"By necessity, I enlisted the aid of some of the local... well, barbarians. 
And I do admit that now some of them are out of control.  Take care as you 
travel through our streets, for my comrades are dangerous and love to 
fight." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 15 
THE SEARCH OF THE MAGE'S BEDROOM: 
 
In the debris you find a scrap of paper with the inscription: 
 
ENWNWN.  Go Straight between turns until you must turn again.  Use the 
knock on hidden door to the right. 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 16 
THE MAGE LIBRARIAN'S STORY: 
 
"Oh my, oh my, it's good to see you!  Yes, Amanitas and his assistant were 
indeed here, but look!  Their room has been torn to pieces, and look at all 
this blood on the floor!  Oh my, oh my! 
 
"I fear something terrible has befallen them.  May Mystra guide you to his 
aid!" 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 17 
LORD NASHER'S STORY: 
 
"I'm afraid you've come to Neverwinter in a time of great troubles.  Many 
people were moving to the outskirts of the city to escape the troubles.  
The older, inner areas were becoming havens for criminals and all forms of 
monsters. 
 
"We converted several blocks of the old city to indoor gardens to help 
bring people back to Neverwinter.  But now monsters have invaded the indoor 
gardens.  Instead of bringing people in and helping the city, the gardens 
are scaring them away!" 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 18 
THE NESME HARBORMASTER'S STORY: 
 
"It's not my fault!  The story's the same in many towns on the river, not 
just here in Nesme!  They can't blame me for this no, no, they can't!" 
 
"The warehouses on the eastern side of the river have been beset by a 
plague of giant frogs, and lizard men have been feasting on the herds in 
the stock pens to the west shore.  Now the shipping companies won't stop 
here because of the danger!" 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 19 
A PORTION OF THE HOSTTOWER DUNGEON. 
 
* See JournalEntry19.IFF Picture * 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 20 
A MAP FOUND IN SILVERYMOON. 
 
* See JournalEntry20.IFF Picture * 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 21 
KREVISH'S STORY: 
 
"You know, I'd sure love to do something for you guys!  If you're looking 
for work I have some friends here in Yartar who hire adventures all the 
time and maybe they have something you could do and that way you could get 
back on your feet again and I would've helped you and I would've repaid you 
for saving my life and we'd be friends and wouldn't that be great?!" 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 22 
VAALGAMON'S TAUNTS: 
 
"You pathetic little simpletons!  Did you think that a puny group of 
snivelling would-be-heroes like yourselves could change one iota of my 
plan?!" 
 
"Vaalgamon does not deal with your kind!  Hah!  I can snuff out your lives 
with the heel of my boot as I would the tiniest of carrion-crawling 
insects!  I will leave the trivial task of killing you to my Kraken hosts." 
 
He turned and swept out of the room, as the heavy door slammed shut behind 
him. 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 23 
THE SAILOR TURNED TO STONE: 
 
Beside the statue we found a crumpled note: 
 
"They wanted the sea lanes clear between Luskan and the Purple rocks, and 
any ship they found there they took over or destroyed.  We were the only 
one of the sad vessels in their path. 
 
"One bye one the undead the commanded have killed our crew, transforming 
them into lonely wanderers themselves.  Soon it will be my turn.  I only 
hope that the tall one turns me to stone, as he did the Captain, so I may 
be spared such eternal torture. 
 
"Some are Krakens, but the magic-user is from a great tower somewhere to 
the north.  He kept taunting the Krakens, saying they needed to go to all 
this trouble because they were not clever.  He said that the wizards of the 
tower had great power, but that they were clever too.  He said their 
treasure was hidden in the opposite direction from where anyone would ever 
look." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 24 
INTO THE HIDDEN COMPLEX: 
 
We followed Krevish around several corners and down an alley, where he 
pressed a hidden panel in a wall.  A door swung open, and after some 
hesitation we let him lead us into a dark corridor.  Our weapons and armor 
clanked loudly as we walked cautiously down the passageway, finally 
arriving before a heavy wooden door. 
 
Krevish knocked on the wood in complex patterns of beats with both knuckles 
and palm, and in a moment it was opened by and angry looking man in well-
crafted armor. 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 25 
THE MEETING BENEATH YARTAR: 
 
The man looked us over for a moment, not at all sure whether he liked the 
idea that Krevish had brought our party to his secret lair. 
 
"It's all right, Captain!" Krevish piped up enthusiastically.  "They saved 
my life!  They didn't have to do i, they could have just kept walking, but 
they stopped and risked their lives to save mine and that was really nice 
of them and that's why you really ought to give them a chance to carry out 
a mission for us because they've really earned a chance I think, don't 
you?" 
 
The Captain rolled his eyes.  "All right Krevish, all right," he sighed.  
"If you'll just be quiet I'll give them a chance." 
 
"As you know," he told us, "the Temples of Bane are dedicated to the 
advancement of Evil in the Realms.  Once cleric of Bane in the town of 
Nesme, up the river to the North of here, has been causing great 
disruptions in that city. 
 
"We believe that to save Nesme from civil war he must be stopped.  If you 
can find the Banite Cleric, and carry out this mission, you will have 
proven yourselves to be as valuable as Krevish here says you are.  Well... 
almost as valuable, anyway." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 26 
THE COLLEGE DEAN'S STORY: 
 
"It's really been quite terrible, quite awful here.  The areas near the 
docks on the north bank of the river are full of lizard men and other 
monsters.  Here! In Silverymoon!  It's unheard of!" 
 
"It's as if someone was trying to keep the good law-abiding folk away from 
the river.  Perhaps the orcs plan a great offensive and are trying to 
deprive us of supplies. 
 
"What will become of us?  Silverymoon was such a peaceful town.  I just 
don't know..." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 27 
THE CAPTAIN OF THE RIDERS OF NESME'S STORY: 
 
"Yes, we too have heard the stories of the trolls gathering in a great army 
to the east in the Trollmoors, and now small groups of them have been seen 
in the ruins to the east of the city. 
 
"We should be going out to drive them back!  We should be scouting the 
moors to see what's going on!  But are we?  No!  We're confined to barracks 
because Longtresses Alarun has taken over.  If we go near the city now, the 
crazy barbarians will start a full-scale ware!" 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 28 
EREK'S STORY: 
 
"Don't just stand there! Amelior Amanitas, the brilliant magic user for 
whom I work, is in great danger!  They said they were taking him up the 
river to Everlund, and from there overland to Llorkh and on to Zhentil 
Keep!  They were furious that he'd discovered their plan, and there's no 
telling what they'll do to him once he's there!" 
 
"If we don't find him before they leave Everlund we'll never have a chance 
-- there are so many routes they could take towards Llorkh... we have to 
find him quickly!" 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 29 
THE CHALLENGE OF AMANITAS: 
 
We quickly summarized for Amanitas what we had learned thus far.  We also 
told how some Banites believed that only he could stop the forces of 
Zhentil Keep from conquering the lands of the Savage Frontier. 
 
"What was revealed to you by the Banites is correct," he said when we'd 
finished.  "I learned much of the tale from an escaped slave who had been a 
servant to the Zhentarim general Vaalgamon, and my investigators since have 
only served to confirm how great the danger truly is. 
 
"Although most of their story has been lost in time, I know now that four 
statuettes were created in ancient Ascore.  They were powerful magical 
items used in the defense of the city, although precisely how they worked 
is still a mystery.  One was crafted to focus on each direction of the 
compass, protecting Ascore from the enemies to the North, East, West and 
South. 
 
"When the city fell into ruins the statuettes passed from owner to owner 
throughout the Savage Frontier for many centuries.  They travelled in 
directions very different from their names.  For example the statuette of 
the East has for many years been hidden somewhere in the west. 
 
"Now the Zhentarium have dispatched Vaalgamon to collect the statuettes.  
They believe that by returning the statuettes to Ascore they can open a 
safe path through the great desert.  Through that path they intend to 
send armies to conquer the entire Savage Frontier. 
 
"We must find and seize the statuettes before Vaalgamon can collect them, 
or a pall of darkness will fall across the north. 
 
"My magical investigations cannot tell me exactly where they are located, 
but I have a sense of the place where each statuette now lies.  To find 
them you cannot follow a map of the road beneath your feet -- I can lead 
you to your goals only by revealing the pathways you must trace within your 
own souls. 
 
"First you must lift your eyes with hope, even if the vision which fills 
them is one of evil.  The statuette of the east is located in a great 
tower, and when you look up at its many spires you shall know that you 
have found it. 
 
"Next you must seek the small truths within the large, unfathomable world, 
for these are the only truths you will ever truly know.  The statuette of 
the west lies in a small chest carved from the pearl of a great oyster, 
in a small room carved from the rock of a great mountain, which is itself 
made small by the greatness of the sea. 
 
"You must then travel to the place to which people do not wish to go, 
because we never truly covet that which we can easily attain.  The 
Statuette of the North lies nowhere close by, but on the long way that 
many travellers nonetheless must pass. 
 
"Then you must soar where even the birds cannot fly, and have faith that 
even without wings you can reach great heights.  The Statuette of the South 
lies both high and above and far below the surface of the land. 
 
"If you gain the four statuettes, take them to Ascore.  I have created one 
more special item, which when combined with the four ancient images, will 
turn the Zhentarim's planned triumph into total and irreversible defeat.  
But this can only be accomplished in the ancient plaza at Ascore." 
 
He reached into his robes and drew out a small, square card that looked 
like it was made of a thin layer of metal.  Runes were embossed upon it. 
 
"This isn't it!"  He exclaimed, annoyed.  "But I suppose you should take it 
anyway.  It's one of my latest inventions.  I call it the Card of Counting.  
If you carry it to the vaults in Yartar, Neverwinter and silverymoon will 
all save and exchange your valuables as if they were really just one place.  
Could be quite handy, yes quite handy.  Don't leave here without it." 
 
"Well that's it!  Good luck to you, and may you find the path easy to 
follow.  You can come and visit me any time at my house in Secomber, and 
if I've learned more about any of the statuettes, I'll be happy to share 
the information with you.  Good bye!" 
 
"The magic item?" we asked.  "There was an important magic item you were 
going to give us?" 
 
"Oh yes, yes, yes.  Musn't forget it.  Very important."  He searched 
through his robes once more... 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 30 
BRINSHAAR'S STORY: 
 
"My name is Brinshaar, and I am a magic-user from Neverwinter.  They 
kidnapped me there and were torturing me to learn of Lord Nashar's magical 
defenses.  Thanks to you they learned nothing, and Neverwinter remains 
safe!" 
 
"As it turns out, I can repay you for your kindness without delay. I have 
seen this statuette you tell me that you seek.  It is not secreted in the 
Hosttower, but somewhere in the dungeons where we now stand." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 31 
THE BANITE CLERIC'S LETTER FRAGMENT: 
 
"... that you found the explanation for the gatherings of trolls and orcish 
armies in the north.  I had suspected it was the work of the Zhentarium, 
and if we had not discovered it in time they might have conquered this 
entire region." 
 
"The fools believe that it is their cunning and their might that brings 
them such awesome power.  Have they forgotten so quickly about the temples
of Bane, and the power that even our own leaders cannot abdicate?  That we, 
the clerics who carry out Bane's will, are the ones who have made the 
name of the Zhentarium feared throughout the Realms? 
 
"I agree with your letter, and although we have never met I feel closely 
bound to you.  By destroying this plan before it starts we shall ensure 
that never again will the Banite clerics be taken for granted in Zhentil 
Keep!" 
 
"I will meet you during the festival of Mielikki in the hidden temple 
behind your shop in Silverymoon.  We shall find the magic-user from the 
south who cal turn the power of the Zhentarim against itself.  Then we 
shall see how brilliant the Zhentarim prove to be!" 
 
"We must not think that because we know about their plans to cross the 
desert it will be simple to stop them.  I am confident we will be 
successful within days only because... " 
 
The remainder of the letter was destroyed, and the ashes crumble to 
nothingness in my hands. 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 32 
THE WATERBARON'S WARNING: 
 
"I must ask you to leave this place immediately!  Great forces here seek 
your destruction.  I will not help them but neither can I stand in their 
way.  Go now!" 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 33 
BROADHAND'S STORY: 
 
Broadhand led us into a small, hidden room decorated with images and 
statues of Bane.  He obviously believed us to be fellow Banites from the 
temple at Nesme. 
 
"I was worried when I sent my letter and no messenger came bearing a reply. 
I'm glad to see you've arrived during the Festival as I suggested." 
 
"Once the Zhentarim would have been content with having found a way to open 
this safe caravan route through the Great Desert.  They would have let time 
pass, allowing towns and villages to become dependent on a supply route 
that only the Zhentarim controlled.  Then, quietly but inexorably, the 
hidden reins of power would be pulled into their grasp." 
 
"Now their greed to seize the northern Realms is unbounded and impatient. 
Sending armies across the Great Desert!  Who would ever have believed it?! 
They have forgotten that a single dagger at midnight may sow a greater 
terror than 10,000 swords at dawn!" 
 
"Even now they are completing their complex on the eastern edge of the 
desert, and are reclaiming the dead city of Ascore on the Western edge as 
well.  They have forged alliances with the Krakens and with other forces 
in the north.  I also hear tales that something big is going on in Llorkh.  
Magic items of great power are being collected for the task, and I have 
been assured that they do indeed have the power to allow the safe crossing 
of the desert!" 
 
"We must strike now!  Controlling the Realms from the Moonsea to the Sea 
of Swords will greatly strengthen the Zhentarim and the Banites will be 
lost!" 
 
"Visiting here in Silverymoon at the Vault of the Sages is the wizard I 
wrote you about, Amelior Amanitas from Secomber.  He learned much of this 
plot from a slave who had escaped from a Zhentarium caravan, and is 
convinced he can stop it with his magical powers." 
 
"He sent a message to a fellow wizard here in Silverymoon, but one of my 
acolytes waylaid the courier and we learned the plan.  Since Amanitas has 
now come here himself, he must have received word of the messenger's death 
and is willing to take great risks to defeat the Zhentarim." 
 
"You must find Amanitas quickly, help him on his task, but do not tell him 
you are Banites or he will never listen to you.  For all his brilliance he 
refuses to accept the beauty of pure Evil, and will never know the joy we 
find in Bane." 
 
"Hurry now!  As we speak our enemies make progress on their path!" 
 
He slipped out of the room, motioning for us the wait a short time before 
leaving to complete our "mission". 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 34 
THE ESCAPE OF ThE PRISONERS: 
 
Three men rushed from the tiny cell, their clothes in tatters, eyes drawn 
from lack of food and sleep. 
 
One stopped to look down at the dead Banite, and a broad smile spread 
across his hollow face.  "Looks like you've done the job we were sent to 
do!" he said laughing unnaturally.  "Now we can go home and take the 
credit!"  We of the Zhentarim salute you!" 
 
His companions blanched as he said the forbidden word -- only others dare 
to use that name, never the Zhentarim themselves.  They cursed in hushed 
voices, pulled him from the room, and were instantly out of sight. 
 
We looked at each other helplessly.  Because we knew the Banite to be 
evil we had slain him -- the one man who could stop Zhentarim's plan 
for the conquest of the Savage Frontier.  There was no choice.  We had 
been searching for a mission.  Now, by accident, we had found one.  We 
would have to save the Northern Realms ourselves. 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 35 
THE KRAKEN STRONGHOLD: 
 
The castle that rose above us was so great in size that it dominated the 
entire island, as if it were a statue and the whole of Trisk were only its 
base. 
 
The front of the building was carved in the image of a massive squid that 
rose a hundred feet above the island, its huge eyes glowing from some 
frightful, hidden light.  Behind it the building had gradually transformed 
into a heavily fortified castle, with high parapets that seemed to go on 
and on and on until they merged into the cliffsides of the coast. 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 36 
THE ODD MESSAGE OF THE KRAKEN: 
 
css al a i gad.  csl te o cre suhet te t i tk wl gad te traee i.  
dc te t dw do suh te truh vut is fo tkn b wl sau te. 
 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 37 
THE ARENA BENEATH LLORKH: 
 
The arena in which we stood was broad and spacious, surrounded by seats for 
several thousand spectators. 
 
Most of those seats were already filled.  Several hundred black-robed men 
sat in one section, beside and equal number of other humans and a few 
strange- looking beings in the shadows -- they may have been drow elves.  
Separated from the humans by a respectfully wide zone of empty seats, the 
remainder of the arena was filled by orcs with a scattering of goblins 
and even bugbears. 
 
The great bowl was filled with the din of a thousand conversations, but 
every voice was silenced at once when a guard called out, "All rise for 
Lord Vaalgamon!" 
 
The familiar figure of the Zhentarim general strode onto a dais on the 
western side of the arena and motioned for his followers to be seated. 
 
"Well my friends!" he told us, a hideous smile distorting his already 
twisted features, "I see we have the pleasure of meeting again!" 
 
"I must say that I admire the courage and cunning that have brought you 
this far.  You have defeated forces that should have defeated you.  Their 
deaths at your hands are appropriate punishment for their failure." 
 
"As a reward for your achievements, I will give you all a chance.  Defeat 
three sets of opponents in my arena and I shall let you live." 
 
"Let the combat begin!" 
 
Across the arena a steel grating opened, and we turned to face our first 
opponent... 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 38 
KING THRELKED IRONFIST'S STORY: 
 
"Ever since the reports of the meteorite strike on the north end of the 
island, many adventurers have come here seeking ore for magical swords.  
However, no one on this island can craft such fine weapons. 
 
"I warn all adventurers, but few listen.  There are many canyons that cut 
across the island, and some have networks of great volcanic caves filled 
with fearsome monsters.  Only parties of veteran adventurers should dare 
to enter them." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 39 
A MAP FOUND IN THE OTYUGH'S LAIR. 
 
* See JournalEntry39.IFF Picture * 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 40 
THE UTHERAAL VILLAGER'S STORY: 
 
"The headquarters of the Kraken Society is on Trisk, the other island just 
across the strait.  They also have fortresses here on Utheraal, on the 
western coast, where they force us to pay tribute. 
 
"They take almost everything we have, but if we don't pay they will take us 
away as slaves.  I don't know if you can defeat them, but whatever you do 
can only make our lives better." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 41 
THE ZHENTARIM SHIP ARRIVES: 
 
Rounding a rocky point far below us was a ship with a single, huge, red 
sail. A large black "M" filled its billowing expanse, which we could only 
speculate was the symbol of Lord Manshoon, the leader of the Zhentil Keep. 
 
A single man stood at the railing near the bow, his black cape flowing 
behind him in the stiff sea breeze.  could it be Vaalgamon himself? 
 
The ship swung to the northwest, its sail dropping as it entered the lee 
of the island and started to approach a large dock.  Men ran across the 
decks and scrambled up the rigging as they prepared for their arrival. 
 
If this ship was coming for the statuette, our time was running out! 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 42 
THE STORY OF PHINTARN REDBLADE: 
 
The flowers were left in beautifully woven baskets beside the street, and 
had delicate hand-embroidered ribbons on them.  One said simply "In 
memory of Phintarn Redblade, Last Ruler of Llorkh." 
 
Another read: 
 
"Tonight thy killers sit within thy keep, But soon they'll lien beneath 
it... six feet deep." 
 
A guard wandered by and saw us looking at the flowers.  Drawing his sword, 
he knocked them from my hand and crushed them with his boot.  "If you're 
a dwarf-lover," he warned us, "Llorkh is no place for you!" 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 43 
MUTHTUR'S STORY: 
 
As if he'd read our thoughts, the creature said, "Yess I'm a half-orc and 
to you I'm ugly as an otyugh.  I'm also the hideous inhuman thing that 
saved your lives." 
 
We all looked at each other, embarrassed and several of us murmured our 
thanks. 
 
"I lived with a small colony of other outcasts in the High Forest, until 
raiding parties from Llorkh captured me and brought me here.  They call me 
a 'novelty fighter' and said it'd be fun to watch something different in 
the arena for a change. 
 
"I'm no novelty, I'm a person.  And I killed the man who said it.  My name 
is Muthtur and all I want to do is go home." 
 
"When they brought me here I saw them use a secret door in the north 
alcove of the arena.  I don't know where it leads, but it may help us all 
get out of here." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 44 
THE POTTER'S STORY: 
 
"I overheard our captors saying that fire giants have been preying on any 
adventurers who were lucky enough to find meteorites.  The giants sell the 
stolen ore to pirates in exchange for gems, grain or even some of us as 
slaves." 
 
She shivered visibly and thanked us once again for saving them. 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 45 
THE DYING ZHENTARIM'S DEFIANCE: 
 
"You may have gotten this far, but even if you could get all the statuettes 
you'd never make it to Ascore... Vaalgamon is far too clever for you, and 
our power is too great... 
 
"Enjoy your triumph for tonight, for it will rot into disaster by 
tomorrow!" 
  
JOURNAL ENTRY 46 
THE STORY OF THE HIDDEN DWARVES: 
 
"We have been prisoners in our own city ever since Lord Redblade was 
killed. They say it was an accident, but we all know it was the Zhentarim 
that killed him, and that it is they who control Llorkh.  Geildarr is only 
a puppet, an outsider brought here by them to control the town. 
 
"Just a few days ago a Zhentarim column came through Llorkh, and they 
murdered any dwarf they could find.  That's why we're now in hiding -- 
this is the lair of a medusa, but even with her hell hound guards we are 
safer here than on the city's streets.: 
 
 JOURNAL ENTRY 47 
KESTUTIS' STORY: 
 
"My name is Kestutis, and I was once a knight who served the kings of Tuern 
and Gundarlun.  In those days the two islands were friends, not the tense 
rivals they have come to be." 
 
"Here on Tuern I dared to enter the hottest volcanic vents in search of 
evil fire giants who terrorized Uttersea, and the old King gave me this 
ancient fortress as a reward for my service." 
 
"I am impressed by your valor and your skill in taking on the mission you 
have described.  Just as I risked my life in service to the people of the 
north, so you are risking yours.  Take this, the Armor of the Glacier that 
I wore during my service -- it will give you the protection against fire 
and against the monsters which it spawns." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 48 
THE SIGNS AT SECOMBER: 
 
"The road and river to the east have become very dangerous.  Go only if you 
need to, and try to travel with a strong group of experienced adventurers." 
 
                                                - Selarn 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 49 
THE KRAKEN'S CODED MESSAGE: 
 
ot l t t ur. ate h f onr otws h o t ae il urs h hetnd f. 
ok h o on or ot h hog al t rm ae e il tte h. 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 50 
THE AARAKOCRA'S STORY: 
 
"High atop the Star Mounts the birds cannot go.  Our homes are there, and 
only we and the dragons can brave the fierce winds that blow through the 
mountain tops.  We have seen black dragons fly to an aerie on one of the 
highest peaks, and saw it to be that a human female rode upon the back of 
one such dragon. 
 
"We have heard that the chambers within the mountain be crafted as a maze.  
It has been told that the corridors be in the form of the first initial of 
their owner in three different runic alphabets, each superimposed upon the 
other and on their own inverses, so that the letters are entwined in many 
layers." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 51 
THE GUILTY CITIZEN'S STORY: 
 
"I didn't want to help them, really I didn't.  I haven't taken a share of 
pirate booty in years.  They said if I didn't report on Jagaerda's 
movements they'd turn me over to the King!" 
 
"I don't know where they have her!  I took my reports to a house hidden 
away among the cliffs on the southern coast.  Please spare me!  I've told 
you everything I know!" 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 52 
THE KRAKEN'S CODED MESSAGE: 
 
etuw lek msu rgt u rwtt k.  ite edea leto e uw to eot se.  gria a s. 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 53 
AN OUNCE OF JUSTICE: 
 
Several weapons were stacked in one corner of the room, and suddenly cried 
out in delight. 
 
My magical long sword, the gold braid on its handle tarnished but 
undamaged, lay amidst the pile of crudely crafted weapons!  I ran over, 
pulled it from its sheath and examined the blade -- still sharp and true 
as any arrow fired from Helm's bow! 
 
Whatever evils might stalk the Realms, I knew that for this one moment 
justice had been done.  The gold they'd stolen from us at the Inn was 
gone forever, but with this sword our honor was restored! 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 54 
CEPTIENNE'S WELCOME: 
 
"Welcome to my home", the image said, smiling.  "My name is Ceptienne, and 
I know that you are here to steal the Statuette of the South from me."  
She waited for the effect of this proclamation to take hold. 
 
"You have proven yourselves worthy adversaries to have gotten this far, 
and I enjoy the challenge of a clever enemy.  I shall kill you... yes, 
that much is certain.  But I shall give you a chance to find the object 
you seek." 
 
A great crystal globe beside here flickered to life, and the statuette 
appeared within it.  "My fortress here has many portals.  Twelve now 
stand between you and your objective.  I shall follow your movements 
with interest." 
 
She smiled once more and the image faded from view. 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 55 
KING REDAXE TELLS OF THE PURPLE ROCKS: 
 
"The Purple Rocks may be the isles you seek," said the King.  "They have 
become a sad place.  Their people were like other island folk, hardworking, 
many of them seafarers.  A few generations ago something strange occurred, 
and many gathered in a secret cult which has become very powerful, called 
the Kraken Society.  They worship the symbol of the Kraken, a huge squid 
that can easily destroy great ships." 
 
"There are two islands in the Purple Rocks, Utheraal and Trisk.  The people 
of Utheraal are impoverished, but continue to live as before.  The people 
of Trisk however, have been completely consumed by the Krakens and are 
controlled by them." 
 
"I know you have been to Tuern already, but it is there that you have the 
best chance of finding someone who will take you to the Purple Rocks.  May 
Selune guide you on your journey." 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 56 
THE MAN OF MIRRORS' STORY: 
 
"I search and research... I find the hidden... I solve the unsolvable.  I 
find reason within chaos and harmony from the stars." 
 
"Vaalgamon has entrusted to me the riddle of the mirror-maps and they 
shall not defeat me!  Already I have confirmed much of what they tell, 
and soon I shall give the general everything he seeks and more!" 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 57 
THE MAGIC MOUTH'S STORY: 
 
"You have done well, adventurers," the stone face said.  Its voice was deep 
and its features expressionless, but the tone of its words was warm, almost 
friendly." 
 
"It is time for you to reap your reward.  Look within the waters of my 
fountain and discern what riches can await you!" 
 
Everyone looked at the spraying water as an image began to form there.  
The vision showed a pool filled not with water, but with gold.  Each member 
of the party was swimming in it, leaping about and laughing and tossing 
coins in the air. 
 
The image faded.  "That was a dream, my friends, but it is a dream that you 
can make real.  Drop the statuettes in my warm waters and this ocean of 
gold shall be yours!" 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 58 
A MIRROR MAP FROM THE HIGH WALL. 
 
* See JournalEntry58.IFF Picture * 
  
JOURNAL ENTRY 59 
THE OLD THIEF'S STORY: 
 
"I was once an adventurer like you, in service to the Lords' Alliance, and 
a fine pickpocket when it came to relieving our enemies of their 
documents... and perhaps an occasional jewel to compensate me for my 
trouble!" 
 
"He was a contemptuous buffoon, Vaalgamon was, pushed me down in the street 
as he passed by, for no good reason.  I may be an old man, but I still have 
the touch!  I saw to it that Vaalgamon didn't leave Sundbar with everything 
he'd brought!"  He held out an aged but steady hand, presenting an envelope 
with a broken wax seal. 
 
We opened the envelope and removed what seemed to be a hastily scribbled 
note: 
 
"Fool!  You allow me one tiny band of mongrels to threaten everything our 
legions now pursue!" 
 
Get to the pyramids at Ascore without delay!  Let no one pass through the 
stronghold!  Guard every pathway -- I care not to hear tour tales of how 
many there are.  If the Road fails you will pay for your carelessness!" 
 
The note was signed with a large, scrawled letter "M". 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 60 
NOTES FROM A PRISON CELL: 
 
As I sit and write my journal the unrelenting cold spreads deep within my 
bones.  The stone floor and thick walls of my cell here in Zhentil Keep 
drain every last ounce of warmth from my body. 
 
We never understood the significance of the statuettes, nor their power.  
With all four in his possession, Vaalgamon achieved his goals, and all 
the northern Realms fell under the Zhentarim shadow. 
 
Our riches have availed us nothing.  We were hunted down, captured, and 
brought to this prison, where they keep us alive only out of a desire 
for revenge.  If only we had the chance to live the past over once again... 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 61 
A MIRROR MAP FROM THE HIGH WALL.
 
* See JournalEntry61.IFF Picture * 
 
JOURNAL ENTRY 62 
A LONELY LAMENT: 
 
I hear the sounds of many footsteps approaching.  I'm sure that they will 
find us soon. 
 
If we had known of Ceptienne's true role as an opponent of the Zhentarim, 
the real statuettes would have been ours instead of the false ones we now 
hold. 
 
We must assume that Vaalgamon's boastful speech was correct, and that the 
High Forrest holds the spot where the magical path across the desert ends. 
 
But to know this now is useless.  We have fallen into his trap and we are
his to play with, as a cat plays with the mouse it is about to devour. 
 
Perhaps others will follow us on this path and find that victory awaits 
them instead of death. 

                                    TABLES

MAXIMUM LEVEL LIMITS BY RACE, CLASS AND PRIME REQUISITE

CLASS        ABILITY      DWARF    ELF    GNOME   HALF-ELF  HALFLING  HUMAN
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Cleric       Any          no       no     no      5         no        6*
Fighter      STR 16-      7        5      5       6         4         8*
             STR 17       8*       6      5       7         5         8*
             STR 18+      8*       7      6       8*        no        8*
Paladin      Any          no       no     no      no        no        8*
Ranger       STR 16-      no       no     no      6         no        7*
             STR 17       no       no     no      7*        no        7*
             STR 18+      no       no     no      7*        no        7*
Magic-user   INT 16-      no       6*     no      6*        no        6*
             INT 17       no       6*     no      6*        no        6*
             INT 18       no       6*     no      6*        no        6*
Thief        Any          8*       8*     8*      8*        8*        8*

no: Characters of this race cannot be of this class.
 *: Highest Level Available in Gateway to the Savage Frontier.


RANGE OF ABILITY SCORES BY RACE

ABILITY         DWARF    ELF    GNOME    HALF-ELF   HALFLING   HUMAN
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Strength        M/F      M/F    M/F      M/F        M/F        M/F
  Min.          8/8      3/3    6/6      3/3        6/6        3/3
  Max.          18/17    18/16  18/15    18/17      17/14      18/18
Intelligence
  Min.          3/3      8/8    7/7      4/4        6/6        3/3
  Max.          18/18    18/18  18/18    18/18      18/18      18/18
Wisdom
  Min.          3/3      3/3    3/3      3/3        3/3        3/3
  Max.          18/18    18/18  18/18    18/18      17/17      18/18
Dexterity
  Min.          3/3      7/7    3/3      6/6        8/8        3/3
  Max.          17/17    19/19  18/18    18/18      18/18      18/18
Constitution
  Min.          12/12    6/6    8/8      6/6        10/10      3/3
  Max.          19/19    18/18  18/18    18/18      19/19      18/18
Charisma
  Min.          3/3      8/8    3/3      3/3        3/3        3/3
  Max.          16/16    18/18  18/18    18/18      18/18      18/18

M/F=Male/Female


ABILITY SCORE MODIFIERS BY RACE

RACE         MODIFIERS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Dwarf        Constitution +1, Charisma -1
Elf          Dexterity +1, Constitution -1
Gnome        none
Half-elf     none
Halfling     Dexterity +1, Strength -1
Humans       none


DEXTERITY TABLE

ABILITY                  REACTION/MISSLE              AC
SCORE                         BONUS                  BONUS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3                           -3                       +4
4                           -2                       +3
5                           -1                       +2
6                            0                       +1
7                            0                        0
8                            0                        0
9                            0                        0
10                           0                        0
11                           0                        0
12                           0                        0
13                           0                        0
14                           0                        0
15                           0                       -1
16                          +1                       -2
17                          +2                       -3
18                          +3                       -4


CONSTITUTION TABLE

ABILITY                    HIT POINT              RESURRECTION
SCORE                      ADJUSTMENT               SURVIVAL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3                           -2                      40%
4                           -1                      45%
5                           -1                      50%
6                           -1                      55%
7                            0                      60%
8                            0                      65%
9                            0                      70%
10                           0                      75%
11                           0                      80%
12                           0                      85%
13                           0                      90%
14                           0                      92%
15                          +1                      94%
16                          +2                      96%
17                          +2(+3)*                 98%
18                          +2(+4)*                100%

* These bonuses available to fighter classes only (Fighter, Paladin, 
  Ranger).


STRENGTH TABLE

ABILITY            THAC0            DAMAGE           WEIGHT ALLOWANCE
SCORE              BONUS          ADJUSTMENT         (IN GOLD PIECES)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3                  -3                -1                  -350
4-5                -2                -1                  -250
6-7                -1               none                 -150
8-9               normal            none                 normal
10-11             normal            none                 normal
12-13             normal            none                 +100
14-15             normal            none                 +200
16                normal             +1                  +350
17                 +1                +1                  +500
18                 +1                +2                  +750
18/01-50*          +1                +3                  +1,000
18/51-75*          +2                +3                  +1,250
18/76-90*          +2                +4                  +1,500
18/91-99*          +2                +5                  +2,000
18/00*             +3                +6                  +3,000

* These bonuses available to fighter classes only (Fighter, Paladin, 
  Ranger).


MULTIPLE ATTACKS
FOR FIGHTER-TYPE
CHARACTERS                     MONEY CONVERSIONS

CLASS          ATTACKS        COIN         GOLD
LEVEL         PER ROUND       TYPE         EQUIVALENT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Fighter 1-6     1/1           Copper       200cp = 1gp
Paladin 1-6     1/1           Silver       20sp  = 1gp
Ranger  1-7     1/1           Electrum     2ep   = 1gp
Fighter 7+      3/2           Gold         1gp   = 1gp
Paladin 7+      3/2           Platinum     1/5pp = 1gp


ARMOR AND WEAPONS PERMITTED BY CHARACTER CLASS

CLASS        MAX ARMOR     SHIELD      WEAPONS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Cleric       any           any         club, flail, hammer
                                       mace, staff, staff sling
Fighter      any           any         any
Paladin      any           any         any
Ranger       any           any         any
Magic-user   none          none        dagger, dart, staff
Thief        leather       none        club, dagger, dart
                                       sing, one-handed
                                       swords, short bow


ARMOR TABLE

                                                            MAXIMUM
ARMOR TYPE          WEIGHT IN GP            AC              MOVEMENT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
None                0                       10                 -
Shield#             50                      9                  -
Leather             150                     8             12 Squares
Padded              100                     8              9 Squares
Studded             200                     7              9 Squares
Ring Mail           250                     7              9 Squares
Scale Mail          400                     6              6 Squares
Chain Mail          300                     5              9 Squares
Banded              350                     4              9 Squares
Splint Mail         400                     4              6 Squares
Plate               450                     3              6 Squares

* A character carrying many objects, including a large number of coins, can
  be limited in movement to a maximum of 3 squares per turn.
# A shield subtracts 1 AC from any armor it's used with.


WEAPONS TABLE

                        DAMAGE VS.   DAMAGE VS. LARGER   NUMBER
NAME                    MAN SIZED    THAN MAN SIZED      OF HANDS    CLASS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Axe, Hand                 1-6            1-4               1           f
Bastard Sword             2-8            2-16              2           f
Battleaxe                 1-8            1-8               1           f
Broad Sword               2-8            2-7               1          f,th
Club                      1-6            1-3               1        f,cl,th
Composite Long Bow*       1-6            1-6               2           f
Composite Short Bow*      1-6            1-6               2           f
Dagger                    1-4            1-3               1        f,mu,th
Dart                      1-3            1-2               1        f,mu,th
Flail                     2-7            2-8               1          f,cl
Halberd                   1-10           2-12              2           f
Hammer                    2-5            1-4               1          f,cl
Javelin                   1-6            1-6               1           f
Light Crossbow#           1-4            1-4               2           f
Long Bow*                 1-6            1-6               2           f
Long Sword                1-8            1-12              1          f,th
Mace                      2-7            1-6               1          f,cl
Morning Star              2-8            2-7               1           f
Scimitar                  1-8            1-8               1          f,th
Short Bow*                1-6            1-6               2          f,th
Short Sword               1-6            1-8               1          f,th
Sling                     2-5            2-7               1          f,th
Staff                     1-6            1-6               2        f,cl,mu
Staff Sling               2-5            2-7               2          f,cl
Spear                     1-6            1-8               1           f
Trident                   2-7            3-12              1           f
Two-Handed Sword          1-10           3-18              2           f

* Must have ready arrows to fire.  Two attacks per round.
# Must have ready quarrels to fire.  One attack per round.
f=fighter, cl=cleric, th=thief, mu=magic-user.


SPELL PARAMETERS LIST

This is a listing of spells available to player characters as they gain
in level.  Following are abbreviations used in the list:

Cmbt=Combat only spell                All=All characters in combat
Camp=Camp only spell                    r=combat rounds
Both=Camp or Combat spell               t=turns
   T=Touch Range                     /lvl=per level of caster
 dia=diameter                     targets=aim at each target
 rad=radius


FIRST LEVEL CLERICAL SPELLS

SPELL NAME            WHEN      RNG      AREA      DURATION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Bless                 Both       6       5 dia      6r
Curse                 Cmbt       6       5 dia      6r
Cure Light Wounds     Both       T       1          -
Cause Light Wounds    Cmbt       T       1          -
Detect Magic          Both       0       All        1t
Protection From Evil  Both       T       1          3r/lvl
Protection From Good  Both       T       1          3r/lvl
Resist Cold           Both       T       1          1t/lvl


SECOND LEVEL CLERICAL SPELLS

SPELL NAME             WHEN      RNG      AREA      DURATION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Find Traps            Camp       3        1          3t
Hold Person           Cmbt       6        1-3targets 4r+1/lvl
Resist Fire           Both       T        1          1t/lvl
Silence 15' Radius    Cmbt       12       3dia       2r/lvl
Slow Poison           Both       T        1          1 hour/lvl
Snake Charm           Cmbt       3        All        5-8r
Spiritual Hammer      Cmbt       3        1          1r/lvl


THIRD LEVEL CLERICAL SPELLS

SPELL NAME            WHEN      RNG      AREA      DURATION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Cure Blindness        Both      T        1            -
Cause Blindness       Cmbt      T        1            -
Cure Disease          Camp      T        1            -
Cause Disease         Cmbt      T        1            -
Dispel Magic          Both      6        3x3          -
Prayer                Both      0        All        1t/lvl
Remove Curse          Both      T        1            -
Bestow Curse          Cmbt      T        1          1t/lvl
          

FIRST LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS

SPELL NAME            WHEN      RNG      AREA      DURATION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Burning Hands         Cmbt      T        3squares     -
Charm Person          Cmbt      12       1            -
Detect Magic          Both      0        All        2r/lvl
Enlarge               Both      .5/lvl   1          1t/lvl
Reduce                Both      .5/lvl   1            -
Friends               Camp      0        All        1r/lvl
Magic Missle          Cmbt      6+lvl    1            -
Protection From Evil  Both      T        1          2r/lvl
Protection From Good  Both      T        1          2r/lvl
Read Magic            Camp      0        1          2r/lvl
Shield                Both      0        1          5r/lvl
Shocking Grasp        Cmbt      T        1            -
Sleep                 Cmbt      3+lvl    1-16       5r/lvl

          
SECOND LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS
          
SPELL NAME            WHEN      RNG        AREA     DURATION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Detect Invisibility   Both      0          All      5r/lvl
Invisibility          Both      T          1          -
Knock                 Camp      6          1/lvl      -
Mirror Image          Both      0          1        2r/lvl
Ray Of Enfeeblement   Cmbt      1+.25/lvl  1        1r/lvl
Stinking Cloud        Cmbt      3          2x2      1r/lvl
Strength              Both      T          1        6t/lvl


THIRD LEVEL MAGIC-USER SPELLS

SPELL NAME                      WHEN      RNG      AREA      DURATION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Blink                           Both      0        1          1r/lvl
Dispel Magic                    Both      12       3x3          -
Fireball                        Cmbt      10+lvl   2/3 rad      -
Haste                           Both      6        5 dia      3r+1/lvl
Hold Person                     Cmbt      12       1-4        2r/lvl
Invisibility 10' Radius         Both      T        2 dia        -
Lightning Bolt                  Cmbt      4+lvl    4,8          -
Protection From Evil 10'        Both      T        2 dia      2r/lvl
Protection From Good 10'        Both      T        2 dia      2r/lvl
Protection From Normal Missle   Both      T        1          1t/lvl
Slow                            Cmbt      9+lvl    5 dia      3r+1/lvl


Level Advancement Tables

The following charts show the amount of experience a character must earn 
in order to gain a level in his character class.  The charts also list 
the number of spells that a character can have memorized at one time.  
Fighters and Thieves can never memorize spells.

Remember that all experience earned by a non-human, multi-class character 
is divided by the number of classes the character has.  The experience is
divided even after the character has reached his maximum level in a
particular class.  A Human dual-class character only earns experience in 
his second class.  The character cannot use the abilities of his first 
class until his level in his second class exceeds his level in his first 
class.


CLERIC

                            NUMBER OF CLERICAL
                      HIT    SPELLS PER LEVEL
LEVEL  EXPERIENCE     DICE   1      2       3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  1    0-1,500        1d8    1
  2    1,501-3,000    2d8    2
  3    3,001-6,000    3d8    2      1
  4    6,001-13,000   4d8    3      2
  5    13,001-27,500  5d8    3      3       1
  6    27,501+        6d8    3      3       2


CLERIC'S BONUS SPELLS

WISDOM     1    2    3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9-12       -    -    -
13         +1   -    -
14         +2   -    -
15         +2   +1   -
16         +2   +2   -
17         +2   +2   +1
18         +2   +2   +1

Note: These bonus spells are only available when the Cleric is entitled
      to spells of the applicable level.  Thus a 4th level cleric with a
      Wisdom of 18 can memorize the following spells:

                                                     NUMBER
                                                    OF SPELLS
                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                                                      1  2  3
                   4th level Cleric with 18 Wisdom    5  4  -



MAGIC-USER
                           NUMBER OF MAGIC-USER
                      HIT    SPELLS PER LEVEL
LEVEL  EXPERIENCE     DICE   1      2       3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  1    0-2,500        1d4    1
  2    2,501-5,000    2d4    2
  3    5,001-10,000   3d4    2      1
  4    10,001-22,500  4d4    3      2
  5    22,501-40,000  5d4    4      2       1
  6    40,001+        6d4    4      2       2


FIGHTER

                              HIT
LEVEL     EXPERIENCE          DICE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1         0-2,000             1d10
2         2,001-4,000         2d10
3         4,001-8,000         3d10
4         8,001-18,000        4d10
5         18,001-35,000       5d10
6         35,001-70,000       6d10
7         70,001-125,000      7d10
8         125,001+            8d10


PALADIN

                              HIT
LEVEL     EXPERIENCE          DICE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1         0-2,750             1d10
2         2,751-5,500         2d10
3         5,501-12,000        3d10
4         12,001-24,000       4d10
5         24,001-45,000       5d10
6         45,001-95,000       6d10
7         95,001-175,000      7d10
8         175,001+            8d10


THIEF

                              HIT
LEVEL     EXPERIENCE          DICE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1         0-1,250             1d6
2         1,251-2,500         2d6
3         2,501-5,000         3d6
4         5,001-10,000        4d6
5         10,001-20,000       5d6
6         20,001-42,500       6d6
7         42,501-70,000       7d6
8         70,001+             8d6


RANGER

                              HIT
LEVEL     EXPERIENCE          DICE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1         0-2,250             2d8
2         2,251-4,500         3d8
3         4,501-10,000        4d8
4         10,001-20,000       5d8
5         20,001-40,000       6d8
6         40,001-90,000       7d8
7         90,001+             8d8

SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW  SKID ROW SKID ROW
