REZNOR SOFTWARE PROUDLY PRESENTS- REZ & SPARKY-AT THE FAIR. 
                 -AN INTERATIVE COMIC BOOK!

                  FOR ALL 1 MEG + AMIGA`S!-BY AARON HOLT


IMPORTANT!

This program was made with assignments made to the disk called
"Rez&Sparky". If you are going to use this program of one of these
Amiga magazines covermounted CD then hopefully then can get it 
working by assignning this disk to a place on the CD. 
If you want to get it running of you HD then you also must add an 
assignment to your start-up-sequence, or a assignment that can be 
accessed from your WB.

The easyist way though is to get a BLANK 880K disk  ( MAKE SURE IT
IS AN 880K DISK.USING SOME FORMATTERS ONLY GIVE YOU 840K SO DO THIS-
Get your Work Bench disk out (It should be 880k) and then copy this
disk onto your blank disk and then *DELETE ALL* the files on the new
Workbench disk(the one you just copied your original WB onto) then
call your disk "Rez&Sparky" and then just copy over the files to the
disk -ie This file,Rez&Sparky(the main program), Sounds and Scenes.
The last two are only accessable on WB2+ by selecting "Show all" in
WB. Now load the main program from your new "Rez&Sparky" disk( with
880k, you see) and everything should work OK!

For HD users just copy over the files to your HD draw and assign it
to look for it there!


HI all Amiga owners out there, I have just completed my first
*ORIGINAL* software title. It has taken me quite a long time to do
actualy although I would have had it done alot quicker if the
programs code was not always infected with bugs, but I seem to have
got them all sorted out at the moment.EXCEPT for a very small bug,
which sometimes crashes your Amiga:( Its good that its rare though:)

I did actually think it would only work on a 2 meg A1200 but it seems
that it *DOES* actually run on 1 Meg Amiga`s, but only just, so if you
have a cluttered up Workbench or something like that it might not work
if you only have 1 meg. You probably would get past that problem by
booting your computer without a start-up-sequence OR by putting the
program on a disk that loads up the DOS screen so you can run it from
there(remember the "Boot without start-up-sequence" is only available
to WB2+ users).Once you have done one of these ways then enter the
following text, it would be like this:

DF0:Rez&Sparky

And then it should load up perfectly.


There are instructions on the program its self which explain it in
detail with nice colour piccys:)

A few things it does miss out on is that on the Credits,shareware 
notice and Instructions pages, these can be exited by clicking on the
"EXIT" icon in the top-left hand corner of the page.These return you
back to the main menu. Also in the Instructions page (The first one)
you can move onto the second page of instructions by pressing the
icon on the near the bottem right hand corner. And also on each page
there is a page number I.E-"Page 4 of 11", this just reminds you what
page you are on in the comic, and how many pages there are in the
comic-In this case 11.

Sorry if the voices sound abit confusing for the first time(or maybe
even the second time), but you probably will understand after.
If you get confused and still don`t know, Rez is the Red Bird and
Sparky is the Brown Sparrow (I still don`t know what Rez is really,
maybe a Parrot? maybe a Sparrow? Tell me if you can help please!

REZ=squeakish voice,SPARKY=Normalish voice,ICE CREAM man=Wierd voice:)

Well I think that is it really EXCEPT..........

SHAREWARE NOTICE!

You are entitled to pass this program around to all your mates, 
up-load it to a local BBS perhaps(Or if anyone wants to, upload it
to the aminet----But E-mail me first to tell me otherwise everyone
would be doing that!.I unfortunatly don`t have Internet access on
my Amiga, but expect to have it soon:)
KEEP EVERYTHING THE WAY IT ORIGINALLY WAS! DO NOT CHANGE ANYTHING!

If you continue to use this program alot you will need to send
£3.50 to me.By doing this you will be convincing me( And my M8 who
wants to see how well my program does before he does anything really
good) to produce more Amiga programs.If you do this then you will 
also get my next program free!!!!!!
Don`t know what it will be but it could be another comic book( More
than likely) or even a game, I`m not sure at the moment but I
will get started on something new soon(After I have had a long rest 
that is;)
Please support shareware releases as it gives the best for everyone.

Please send me information when you register like what your Amiga`s 
specs are and what type of games you like, Plus an e-mail address if 
you have one.

You might just find that this program doesn`t suite you or you age
range, it was a childrens program to start off with but it will
provide some entertianment I suppose( well me and my friends think
its amusing!)


Also I did have to make most of the samples smaller so that all of
the other files would fit on the disk. I suppose actually people with
HD`s could get the full speech samples of me and just replace them
with the ones that come with the original version, which is very 
simple to do. I don`t know how much differnce there is between them 
and the originals, but they do enhance it abit.If you want these
extended sets then just send a blank disk when you register with me
and I will copy them onto your disk for you so you can exchange them
with your other ones. I probably will be putting these extended sets
on a few of my local BBS~s, and maybe a Magazine CD in the future.

Right then my E-Mail address is: Iago@Timp8.Demon.co.uk


E-mail me for any reason at all or points which have relevance to 
above. I will try and answer all E-Mail but I can only read my E-Mail
every weekend so be sure to do it soon!


If you want to register with me please send a cheque/postal order 
(send cash if you have to-But make sure its not in coins!)
Made payable to: Aaron Holt

Address:

Reznor Software
6 Harrow Lane,
St-leonards-on-sea,
East Sussex
TN37 7JR  

Also by registering I might be able to produce a newsletter every 
couple of months or so, if I have enough programs coming out I can 
mention them in this! PS-TO SEE THE PROGRAM ICON GOOD USE 8 COLOUR WB!

TO ALL AMIGA PROGRAMMERS OUT THERE!

Right then your a Amiga programmer then:)
Why don`t you try and make some kewl games that can equal PC
games and the console games?
I have seen people that have achieved this such as Slipstream as
good clone of WipEout, Then you have all your Doom games which
have been done on the Amiga too. A few adventure games I.E- The
excellent "Toon Struck" (I would love it if this come out on the
Amiga!) which uses a Roger Rabbit/Cool World type thing would be great
for the Amiga as well as something like a Tomb Raider/Resident 
Evil/Nights/Mario 64 which are all totally brill games could probably 
be done to some extent on the amiga and in some case already have been
done to some extent I.E the fab "3D Hunter" ( Which does infact look 
like the game "Body Harvest" on the N64!). This game is partly like 
Mario 64 (Except usually just on flat land and not so good graphics as
Mario 64 etc).

It seems weird most commercial companies and Amiga programmers 
developing for the Amiga just produce 2D games.
WE WANT 3D GAMES GALORE!

Anyway anyone out there please take notice of this and I hope it`s 
given you a few ideas!
