                              TALES FROM HEAVEN

MINIMUM HARDWARE REQUIRED:

Cpu: 68030 at 25Mhz
Gfx: AGA or CGX
Ram: 8Mb FastRam, 2Mb ChipRam


INSTRUCTIONS:

You can control Ruben with Joystick, Joypad or Keyboard.
Joystick control:
Arrows for direction, Button to jump, SpaceBar to drop bombs.
Joypad control:
Arrows for direction, first Button to jump, second Button to drop bombs.
Keyboard control:
Arrows for direction, Right Shift to jump, SpaceBar to drop bombs.

During game you can press ESC to pause the game and go the options menu. You
can choose between:
Resolution: High/Low
Background: On/Off
Music: On/Off
Quit Game.

Remember to collect more diamonds you can! Every 10 diamonds you get an extra
life!

Everytime you finish a level, you automatically get your game saved. So next
time you want to play Tales from Heaven, you haven't to restart from scratch.
Simply go to the Titlescreen menu and select "Load Game".


THE STORY:

Zaac is a ten years old boy. With his parents and his kitten  named Hairo he
lives in a big town. During summer his parents rent a little hut in the middle
of the countryside looking for the stillness and the rest they couldn't find in
the city.

Zaack likes going out with his family in summer time, but as he was the only
child living with two adults, he wasn't having much fun those days because
there wasn't any boy or girl to play with. He could of course play with his
kitten but all in all its much too silent for a boy of his age.

But things are about to change in Zaac's holidays, not in this world but in
another one. A world unknown to humans.

All began one stormy night. The pouring rain and the flashes of the lightening
cutting the dark sky make people stay at home although it was a summer night.

Zaac was in his room, playing with Hairo. Bored because he had to stay all
day at home because of the storm. As he could not play outside he spent the
whole day chasing Hairo to play with him but the cat was getting very annoyed
of it.

Suddendly there was an enormous blaze and a burning ball fell from the sky and
smashed near the hut. Zaac saw the flaming thing falling down from his windows.
He wondered what happened, so he hurried down the stairs to find out.

He took a torch and a rushed outside. After a couple of minutes he found a
strange object. Zaac examinated the strange thing that seemed to be a medal.
When he came back to his room Zaac wanted to show Hairo his discovery but the
cat, too tired to stay awake after the long day, had fallen asleep as soon as
the kid left the room. Zaac ties up the medal to Hairo's neck and fell asleep
as well.

Next morning Zaac went down the stairs.
The day was cloudy but it wasn't raining so the boy decided to go out to play
after breakfast. That was a release for his mother and even more so for the
cat, which was upset of being confined in the house with a ten years old boy.

Suddendly, there is another blaze and a clearing appears between the clouds.
A strong blow of mind, coming from the sky, lifts Hairo up in the sky.

Zaac astonished started running after the cat, but it was hopeless as Hairo
was raised too high for the kid to reach it.
Suddendly a great bird comes flying through the air and threw the flying cat.
The boy frightened, because he thought the bird was trying to attack his
friend, but it smashed against the cat and fell down near him.

Zaac realising he could not reach the cat, tried to catch the malicious animal,
very angry because of its action against the kitten. As he got close to the
animal very angry because of its action against the kitten. As he got close to
the animal surprinsgly it started talking.

The bird asked Zaac not to hurt him, he explained that his intentions were not
to harm the cat but to get the object that Hairo was wearing round his neck.
At the beginning Zaac didn't understand what the bird, who introduced himself
as Minhos, was telling him. After a while, the bird told him the whole story.

Minhos belongs to a world beyond the clouds, far away in the sky.
Four different regions constitute this world but they all depend on a central
kingdom called Laitum, set in Erdemon, one of the kingdoms regions.
But an evil force, called the Misties is threatening their land now.
Parts of the kingdom are already defeated but some areas still fight the
invaders even though they are a few.

The only chance is to use a powerful arm they secretly own, but to get it to
work they need a talisman which was hidden in a remote land.
Minhos was in charge to recover the medal but he was assaulted by evil forces
last night and during the fight he lost the sacred medal.

This morning he continued searching the medal and finally found it hanging on
a cat's neck. But the evil forces located the jewel as well and were guicker
than Minhos.
They kidnapped the kitten to steal the ignition mechanism.

Zaac was worried and wanted to know what could happen to Hairo once the
Misties get the talisman but Minhos was not very optimistic about their
intentinos. Minhos said that he could not waste more time talking with him
because he had a mission to accomplish, but he promised Zaac that after
recovering the medal he would start looking for Hairo.

Zaac was too worried to trust in the bird's promises and he knew that Minhos
would be more interested in getting the jewel so he asked Minhos if he could
take him to his land to find Hairo himself. Minho hesitated because the kid
seemed to be too heavy for him, but looking at the anxious face the child had
he couldn't deny Zaac's petition.

Minhos took off with Zaac and they vanished in the air. After a couple of hours
flight they landed in a misty regione. Zaac looked around astonished because
he couldn't belive in a place like this could exist. Above the coulds, like
Heaven, but Minhos advised him not to waste time there because it wasn't a safe
place. The bird started walking. Zaac asked Minhos if they wouldn't arrive
quicker if they went on flying but the bird told him they couldn't fly because
they would be easy targets for the Misties, so they had to continue walking.

After a few minutes they geard a sound. Minhos stopped and listened carefully.
After a moment of hesitation he waslked towards a brush about ten metres away.
He whispered something in a language Zaac couldn't understand and immediatly a
dark shadow came out of the brush. After a brief conversation Minhos came back
and told Zaac that when Hairo arrives to their world their fellows try to
intercept the medal and a great fight will start against the Misties. In this
confusion the cat escaped and both parties are looking for him desperately. The
problem was that later report have it that the cat is in the occupied zone.
Looking for him there would be extremely dangerous.

Zaac listened with a serious face to what Minhos told him. If Hairo wasn't in
the Misties' hands he had an opportunity to rescue him and he didn't want to
waste it. He asked the bird in which direction the cat disappeared and he
started his journey after promising Minhos they would meet in a few days in
Laitum, the capital of Erdemon.

The Game Begins...


©2000 Darkage Software, Italy. Published by Epic Marketing.
