

Super Gem Fighter Mini Mix
by: Seng Wai

Version 1.2							28/1/98

********
Contents
********

1. Version History
2. Introduction (My opinion)
3. Buttons n' stuff
4. Characters n' moves n' endings n' strategies n' lots of stuff
5. General Tips
6. Acknowledgements


*****************
1.Version History
*****************

Version 1.2: Made major changes (I just went to gather more info, see?)

Version 1.1:Corrected some errors and typos, and added more useful info.

Version 1.0:First try at this gamefaq (Or any faq for that matter)Hope things 
		help.


**************
2.Introduction
**************

What can I say? This game is a blast. I actually wonder how they made up such a 
cool idea. It's surprising that this game was not widely advertised here in 
Singapore. Not many people like to play it (Most actually want to, because it's 
so cute!). The thing is so cute it attracts you, but when any ordinary person 
finds that the computer can change costumes and you can't seem to, or when they 
realise that specials & supers cause no block damage (Yes, that's right and No, 
you didn't read wrongly) and when the characters have pathetic range due to 
short arms and legs, the ordinary arcade player will give this game nothing more 
than a glance. Especially those who hate Super-Deformed and Otaku stuff from 
Japan. I'm not going to elaborate, but read the rest of this faq to learn more.


*******************
3. Buttons n' stuff
*******************

This ain't your typical capcom game. There's only 3 buttons. Punch (P), Kick 
(K)and Special (S). That means no Fierce, Strong or Jab, just one punch. Same 
for kicks. The punch button, well, causes you to throw a punch (common sense). 
Same for kicks.

The special button is interesting. Pressing it causes your character to turn 
into something or hold a particularly unfriendly object and charge it up. When 
the charging is complete, the character, like Ken for example, will perform a 
Guard Crush (remember this term!!!). In Ken's case, He will use a big hammer the 
size of himself on the opponents. Guard Crushes CANNOT BE BLOCKED! They also 
allow you to steal gems from the opponents. (Which I will elaborate later) In 
addition to that, holding down the S button allows you to charge it up, so that 
it can cause more damage and steal more gems. Guard Crushes have infinite 
priority.

There are gems in this game, much like that of puzzle fighter. Small gems slowly 
raise your power bar, medium gems raise it a little more, and large gems 
instantly raise a level on the power bar. There are 3 colours. Red, Yellow, and 
Blue for each individual special move. Collecting gems also help to raise your 
super meter. There are also diamonds in the game that raise all your special 
meters as well as the super meter.

Each character in the game has only 3 special moves, nothing more. Each move can 
be seen at the bottom of the screen along with its power gauge. The power gauge 
increases as you collect gems. Each special starts off at level one. As you 
collect gems, the bar levels up, so specials will have more hits, further range 
(very useful) and cause more damage. There is a max of level 3 for each bar. 
Example: Sakura's hadoken is at level one. It causes around 3% damage, is the 
size of Sakura's fist and only travels half screen. As red gems are collected, 
the fireball levels up. At level 2, the fireball is 2 hits (This means that it 
will go dissipate and go through a Ryu's level one hadoken), a little bigger, as 
well as travel 75% screen. At max level, The fireball is 3 hits, around Sakura's 
height and goes full screen.

What's a capcom game without supers? Super's can be used by pressing a simple 
motion (e.g. QCF) along with the special button. So, to do a Shinku Hadoken, Ryu 
players must do QCF+S . (Settles many problems of doing 2 fireball motions or 
pressing 3 punches together, right?)

Costume changes are the most integral and fun and annoying part of the game, 
especially when you're losing to a computer Felicia who particularly likes to
turn into a mega-man and blow your brains away. To do a costume combo, or Flash
combo, you must deliver a punch on the opponent. The punch can be blocked.
Following the punch, press a combination of 3 buttons (e.g. P+P+P+P or P+K+K+S).
This allows your character to go into a combo or punches and wacky costumes to
trounce the opponents. Attacks also include overheads and well, underheads. 
Flash combos also cause no block damage. However, Certain flash combos have 
their final attack as a guard crush (e.g. Felicia will turn into mega-man and 
charge up her (his?) cannon. God bless your character if he/she gets hit by it. 
Prevent this by counterattacking or performing a super (like Ibuki's Weapon X) 
in the middle of a flash combo, if you dare....

Items like bombs and bananas can be collected and used on the enemies. Use your 
imagination. Just press K+S. Different items include the bomb, a banana, an ice-
ball, a lightning ball, and a evil looking purple ball. All items, except the 
ice-ball when thrown on the floor, will stay there. The bomb will gradually blow 
up, the banana will trip anyone who steps on it, the lightning ball will 
suddenly shoot lightning from it, and the purple ball will shoot a beam that 
turns the target into stone. When turned into stone, the target is petrified for 
3 seconds. At this moment of time, any singe hit attack will cause twice as much 
damage. When the thrown item lands on an opponent who is not blocking, they 
perform their effect instantly. The ice-ball also immobilises the target.

Did I forget to mention where the super meter was? It is just below the life 
bar, use your eyes. It does not seem to have a limit, so store up as much level 
as you want.

Occasionally, there will be treasure chests (like the one in the starting of a 
fight). Hit these and gems, items or life refilling food will appear. These can 
also be released by hitting the Son Gokuh (the monkey) on the cloud that 
occasionally flies across the screen.

It seems like there is a lightning cloud floating in the sky. Touching it will 
cause you to be shocked. It drains life. This is a threat as you can easily lose 
a round this way.

You can super jump by pressing down-up.

Just in case you don't know, Guard crushes can be changed. Just pressing the S 
will give you one type of GC. Down+S gets another type (overhead). Holding 
Back then +S gets another (mega-far range). GC counters can be done by pressing 
Back+S. This causes your character to flash a bit. They are however, extremely 
vulnerable to normal attacks that way. Different types of GCs steal different 
colour gems. 

Pressing all 3 buttons while on the floor will result in your character having a 
green energy shield around him that damages opponents. However, you will release 
any available gems that you have. Not advisable unless you have little gems.

While falling in the air, press all 3 buttons to get a energy protected fall. 
You do not lose any gems this way. However, since you can control your motion, 
the opponent can perform a shinku hadoken on you as you recover.

For all characters, (P+P+P+P) flash combos do not end with a guard crush. Also 
since the people have so little range, one must keep pushing forward to actually 
connect. This makes it hard for Ryu and Morrigan to do flash combos whn you are 
a little distance away.

One more point, I may seem to know a lot, but these are just the basics of the 
game. I also do not know everything about every character, so forgive me if I 
don't have the info. Only Dan and Tessa can be thoroughly explained since I luv 
these 2 people.


***********************
4. Characters and Stuff
***********************

If you haven't read the stuff above, read them NOW!!!

Note: When I say this move's range is variant, it's range increases with it's          
level. Flash GCs are GCs that occur only at end of a flash combo.

Ryu

Story:Ryu wants to improve his power and looks for Tessa, a legendary witch. 
	Who can help to strengthen him.

End boss: Tessa

The cheapest character around, he's one of the strongest people around. Pity 
that he does not have any costume changes. He can do flash combos, but don't 
expect him to become a lorry driver or something. Ryu's sweeps are rather far-
range in this game though. Unfortunately for him, Sakura seems to be a better 
Ryu in this game than Ryu himself!!! Ryu seems to lose less life per blow, and 
causes quite hefty damage.

Hadoken: QCF + P
This move is always full screen. At max lvl, it is bigger and causes 3 hits. 
There seems to be a paralysing effect to this move on the opponent.

Hurricane Kick: QCB + K
This move's range is variant. One hit and you fly. At max lvl, it has 
electricity flowing it, turning you into a flying light bulb. Can be done in the 
air.

Shoryuken: DP+ P
This move's height is variant, and IMHO should be kept at level one. You're less 
open that way. One hit and you fly. At max level it is electric and goes up 
quite high.

Flash combos: Goes into a flurry of punches and kicks. Flash GCs include boxing         
		  the victim in the stomach 20 times or stepping on the victim with 
		  spiked clogs. All his Flash GCs have pathetic range, but are 	
		  painful. Master how to make the opponents eat his Guard Crushes if 
		  you want to be a master of Ryu.

Guard Crushes:	Either uses a street sign, a hammer or a pair of spiked clogs 
			to pulverise opponents. Go ahead and abuse his hammer.

Shinku hadoken: QCF+ S
A humongous 5 hit fireball that causes damage not worthy for its name.

Shinku Hurricane kick: QCB + S
Rain falls around Ryu and victim is sucked in for massive damage. Has more range 
than you think. The damage is massive, so are the gems.

Shin-Shoryuken: DP+S
What do you mean you never expected this super in this game? This is not what 
you think it is. Ryu actually goes into a flurry of punches before ending it 
with an electric Shin-Shoryuken. Ouch! BTW, there is no way to counter attack
Ryu this even at the end of the super. If blocked, Ryu will complete his punch 
flurry with a simple uppercut. You will end up being too far away. Only Fast, 
long range specials/supers can hope of connecting.

Ending: I don't know


Ken

Story:Ken has the seven-year itch and is looking for a pretty girl to go 
	for tea with.

End Boss: Morrigan

IMHO, he is better than Ryu in this game. However, his supers leave much to be 
desired. He is still flashier and surprisingly, more dangerous than Ryu. Plus he 
has costume changes. Definitely the ultimate character!

Hadoken: QCF+P
Has full screen range. At max lvl, it is 3 hit, bigger, and torches opponents!
The burning effect doesn't seem to cause more damage, though.

Hurricane kick: QCB+K
Range is variant. It has clouds of fire trailing it at level 3.
The burning effect doesn't seem to cause more damage, though.

Shoryuken: DP+P
The ultimate Shoryuken. At level 1, it causes 10% damage. Painful! At level 2, 
it has flames and goes higher. At max lvl, it is 3 hits and Ken is basically 
untouchable. Good for Ken, not good for others. As usual, a good anti-air 
special. Execute the shoryuken in the middle of an opponent's FC for best 
results.

FC:	Goes into a flurry of punch and kicks. Can turn into a football player and 
	kick you around. Humiliating.

GCs: 	Uses a Hammer or changes into a cowboy or uses a rod with a spiked ball at 
	the end. Abuse his hammer.

Shoryu-reppa: DP+S
In this game, Shoryu-reppas seem to cause the most damage. They have unequalled 
priority and cause nearly as much damage as Akuma's Raging Daemon. However they
leave you quite open. All that I have said applies to every shoryureppa in this
game, not only Ken's. Note that Ken's shoryureppa is the best of them all, so 
don't be surprised if other's shoryureppas don't have as much priority and 
damage.

Shinryuken: Backwards DP+S
A super with hopeless range and damage. Just plain flashy. Ram the buttons to 
create up to 25 hits. Ken does the Shinryuken and has 2 flaming dragons beside 
him. On the way down, he is actually burnt by them. Hilarious. Execute as an 
anti-air technique.

Jinppu-Ryu-Kyaku: HCF+S
This super has incredible range, as if Ken has turned into Dhalsim and can 
extend his legs. However, the lag time is seriously out of order. After the 
first hit, it is possible to block the second hit. Plus, you are left extra-
open. Not a good choice.

See, Ken does have pathetic supers, (but not the Shoryureppa)

Ending:Ken gets to go for tea with Morrigan, but is discovered by Eliza, 
	his wife. He tries to make up excuses but gets beaten up instead.


Sakura

Story:Sakura goes to look for Ryu to train with during her Summer 	
	holidays.

End Boss: Ryu

Sakura is cuter than ever before. Watch her scream and entertain as she turns 
into a bunnygirl, motorcyclist, fast-food restaurant attendant, swimmer and 
Japanese warrior. Her fireballs seriously outdo Ryu's making Ryu's existence 
seemingly pointless. A great beginner's character.

Hadoken: QCF+P
Do not underestimate it. At level 1, it may be small, weak and only 1/2 screen. 
At level 2, it starts to mean business. At max lvl, it is the size of Sakura 
herself and is 3 hits and full-screen. Not a pretty sight.

Sho-o-ken: DP+P
Hilarious. The damage caused is okayish. Sakura uses an umbrella as a weapon 
while charging and opens it up as a parachute while falling. What innovation on 
the part of Capcom. 

Mad-dash: HCF+ K
A rather useless move. It causes minute damage even on level 3, leaves you 
wide-open if blocked, and has extremely low priority. Even a well-timed punch 
can disable it. It just looks plain silly. Sakura screams and does a mad dash 
across the screen. Range is variant. It chips off damage and throws the 
opponents across the screen. However, if it connects, the gems it liberates are 
many.

FCs:	Sakura can turn into a Japanese woman wielding a rod for her blockable 	
	combo, or a swimmer with a underhead towel attack, and the list goes on.

GCs:	Sakura's most effective GC is the Back+S. She turns into a bunnygirl with 
	a far-range watergun. The watergun has incredible range and can connect 
	even when it may not seem to. Powerful.

Shinku-Hadoken: QCF+S
Best used against fireballers or in the middle of a flash combo. The damage is 
same as Ryu's.

Cherry-Blossom: DP+S
A shoryu-reppa. Note that this shoryureppa is one of the weakest, and cannot be 
executed as a FC counter, unless you like trading hits.

Bunny Massage: HCB+S
You must be a spastic if you don't block this. It can be seen coming a mile 
away. Sakura turns into a bunny girl and summons many pumped up men to try to 
carry you off the screen and beat you up. Liberates many gems. Can be blocked. 
Effectively only on computer and players that have their block function 
disabled. Hitting Sakura while she is summoning the men can cause the men to 
have no effect on you.

Ending:Sakura gets Ryu to train her and finally understands hado-power. She 
	becomes so engrossed that she trains past her summer holidays.


Chun-Li

Story:Chun Li is a cop who uses violence to get the job done. One day she 
	finds out that the local zoo has lost a lion and goes in search for 
	it.

End Boss: Felicia

Chun-Li is another great starting character. She is the best choice to go for 
when you want to engage in fireball fights, as well as look cute. She is more 
mature than Sakura. When she jumps, she goes higher and further than other 
characters, so be ready for that.

Kikoken: QCF+P
Another fireball that seriously outdoes Ryu's. It is full screen, and can 
become as big as Chun-Li on max lvl. It also has the ability to freeze opponents 
and stuns them if it connects once above level 2.

Hurricane Kick: QCF+K
Let me get this clear. This super is not one that can be increased in power. It 
is the same as that of Chun Li's hurricane kick in the original SF2.

Rising Hurricane: DP+K
I'm not very sure about this, but it's horizontal and vertical range and no. of 
hits increases with its level. This special seems to have very high priority and 
should be used as an anti-air. 

Multi-Kick: Tap K repeatedly.
The only difference with level change is that it becomes more rapidly. Execute 
in the middle of the opponent's FC.

FCs:	The P+P+P+P combo turns her into a policewoman with infinite firepower 	
	range and a blockable bazooka attack. Other combos turn her into a 
	schoolgirl who writes heart-wrenching love letters, as well as others...

GCs: 	She turns into a hockey player or a policewoman with a menacing 
	flamethrower.

Kikosho: QCF+S
Imagine the MSH vs SF kikosho. Now imagine that any energy behind her hands are 
gone. The kikosho is a 10 hits, anti-air powerhouse. Has loads of lag time after 
the super is done though. Use it to counter a FC.

Super Rising Hurricane: DP+S
Has incredible damage, but not so incredible range. Good as a FC counter. The 
damage it causes is quite a lot.

Bike Raid: HCB+S
Chun-Li blows a whistle, turns into a policewoman and stands on a platform that 
magically appeared. She then summons tons of cyclist from her SF Alpha2 
background to run the victim over. It is possible to hit her while she is on the 
platform.

Ending:Chun Li finds Felicia and mistakens her for the lion. She puts the 
	cat into a cage and ships her off to the zoo. The next day, she 	
	finds out that the musical star Felicia has disappeared, and without 
	realising her mistake goes in search for the star.


Morrigan

Story:Morrigan is always praising her own beauty, and fells that others 
	should know about it. She goes in search of people to 'convince' 	
	them of her beauty.

End Boss: Chun Li? (I'm not sure)

Morrigan is best meant for characters who have grasped the basics of the game. 
She has one of the strongest fireballs, and is IMHO an Evil Ryu clone.

Fireball: QCF+P (air)
Her fireball is always full screen and is relatively big. It causes 10+% damage 
on level 3 and is as big as herself. (The super fireball in Darkstalkers)Use on 
characters with poor fireball defence. In the air, the fireball goes 45 degrees 
downwards.

Bat Wing: DP+P
A effective dragon punch. It's height and power increases with level. A lot like 
Ken's just not as powerful. Still has high priority.

Dashing Spin:
Picture a hurricane kick that has little range and goes up while going forward. 
It has a vacuum effect. Overall, the original hurricane by Ryu/Ken is better. It 
however, otdoes Ryu/Ken's in terms of speed.

FCs:	She turns into a housewife, a nurse, or a Japanese woman. Her frying pan 
	guard crush must not be underestimated.

GCs:	Her most effective guard crush resembles Sakura's. She uses a injection 
	needle for King Kong on the opposition.

Morrigan X: HCF+S
A dashing weapon X. This super causes reasonable damage, instead of having a 
clone, Lilith is called to help her during the super. They act like Spiderman in 
MSH with Power Gem and trounce the opponent on both sides. This super can, 
however, be stopped with a simple punch.

Multi-Wing: DP+S
Her Bat wing glows blue and she does a shoryu-reppa. This shoryureppa most 
closely resembles Ken's in terms of damage and priority.

Vacuum Hurricane: QCB+S
A Ryu-type vacuum hurricane super with considerably less range. It does cause a 
lot of damage though. Many gems liberated.

Ending: Don't know


Ibuki

Story:	Ibuki is a young ninja who wants to go to the city. She enters the 
		city and prays that no one would know she is a ninja. However, she 
		walks around in her ninja suit, so everyone can recognise her. She 
		has to defeat those who notice her in order to silence them.

End Boss: Sakura

Ibuki is meant for players who have grasped the game. Her powers are not to be 
underestimated and overall, she is one of the more powerful characters.

Knife Throw: QCF+P
Jumps into the air and throws a simple knife. At lvl 2, she throws 2 shurikens 
and at max lvl, a 3 hit teddy bear. Sounds silly. But the damage ain't. Good on 
fireballers.

Penguin Attack: Backwards DP+K
Sounds silly. Is silly. She jumps into the air, wears a penguin suit and kicks 
you in the face. Number of kicks depends greatly on level. Ibuki then jumps away 
onto the floor. She is left very open at the end of the special. It is tough to 
time the attack right. In other words, don't use this.

Rising kick: DP+K
She does a rising kick for a Dragon Punch. Has incredible damage to make up for 
its virtual no-range. Great as an anti-air technique.

FCs:	She can turn into anything! A housewife, a Japanese man, a dancer, a 
	samurai, a calligrapher. You name it, she's got it. Particularly 
	irritating is her calligrapher, where she splatters you with ink. 
	Her Japanese man GC turns you into a doll, and is equally humiliating, 
	because it has virtually no range.

GCs: 	Like Sakura, the only GC worth using is her Back+S. She uses a bamboo pole 
	with incredible range.

Multi-Knife: QCF+S
Morphs into Cammy and throws knifes, shurikens, bombs and teddy bears. Damage of
the Super depends on the power meter of her knife special. Painful and easily 
catches the human players off-guard.

Frog Flare: QCB+S
Ibuki summons a gigantic frog, sits on it and points at you. The frog then blows 
a 5 hit Yoga Flame in your face. Counter attack at the end of this move.

Ibuki X: DP+S
The most effective super in the game. This super is exactly like the weapon X. 
It is fast, high priority and causes 30% damage. It's only drawback is that it 
can't pass through fireballs. It looks real cool. Ibuki wears a swordsman suit 
and charges at the opponent. If she connects, the screen goes red, there are 4 
sword slashes, across the screen, and you seen Ibuki put her sword back into its 
sheath while the target is cut into a hundred pieces.

Ending:	Ibuki meets up with Guy and challenges him. Guy says something and 
		gives her a baked potato. Ibuki cannot resist and immediately 	
		gobbles it down, giving Guy sufficient time to escape.


Felicia

Story:	Felicia has accomplished many things by becoming a singer. She wants 
		to achieve more and wants to star in a movie. She then goes in 	
		search for Ken, whom she believes has a connection with the movie 
		industry.

End Boss: Ken

Felicia is a character that I hardly experiment with, so I don't really know 
much. She makes all sorts of noises every time she does anything. She 
somersaults as she jumps, making it hard to judge distance.

Cat roll: QCF+K
Rolls forward and then goes in a flurry of rising punches. Power and range 
increases with lvl. Hit the buttons for more hits.

Delta Kick: DP+K
Felicia does a dragon punch with her feet, then arcs down onto the ground. It 
causes massive damage.

(1 more specials)

FCs:	Turns into various Darkstalkers characters and Mega-man. Note that her 
	FC's are very variant and you do not usually know what will come out 
	next. Good on humans.

GCs: 	Turns into various Darkstalkers characters and Mega-man.

Help Me!:HCF+S
Summons fellow cats to save her. Looks a little silly.

Felicia X: DP+S
A strong Weapon X that has low priority. Can be countered if timed right even
by a simple punch. However, it only affects those in front of her. A good FC 
counter.

The Cloning: HCB+S
Summons Fellow Felicias to stand in a line. Felicia does a kick. The others 
follow suit like a mexican wave. Pushes opponents to end of screen.

Ending: ???


Tessa

Story:	Tessa is reading her book on magic spells when she finds that a 	
		magic stick descended from the family of Shou can change the form of 
		a girl. She immediately wants to obtain it, and goes in search for 
		Hsein-ko who is a descendant of the Shou family.

End Boss: Hsien-ko

Tessa is my favourite character because she is weak and strong at the same time. 
Like Akuma in MSH vs SF, she can dish out loads of punishment but can't take it 
herself. She loses TWICE as much life per hit, and has very low priority. She 
does however have massive range in everything she does. When she blocks, she 
holds out objects like a little girl or a star instead of using her arms. In 
fact, you must be really good in order to master her. (Something which I'm 
working on)

Dragon Head: QCF+P
The dragon head is best at level 3. It is Tessa's only high priority useful 
special. Tessa will stick out her arm, which will turn into a dragon head. At 
level 1, you get a baby dragon head, and her punch has furthur range than this. 
At level 2, it gets dangerous. At max lvl, Tessa can cause 10% at 1 go with this 
1/3 screen special. It's no joke. This move has managed to trade hits with 
Felicia's X before. Best used in combos.

Dragon Roll: QCF+K
To counter the powers of the Dragon Head, the dragon roll was invented. Never 
before have I seen such a useless special in my entire life. Even Sakura's mad 
dash can override this. It's priority is that low. This is IMHO, a special that 
shows the balance Capcom had in mind for its characters. The Dragon roll, turns 
Tessa into a ball that seems to be that of a rubber dragon. The damage it causes 
is little by little chipped off. Best used only if you want to make a fool of 
the opposition. If you don't believe me, use it and find out.

Rising Chainsaw: DP+P
A Dragon punch that is too horizontal and only affects targets in front of Tessa 
in the air. The chainsaw increases its range, but who in the world can be caught 
by it?

FCs:	Tessa has virtually no imagination. She can only turn into an Arabian girl 
	that uses a large genie, or a scientist that uses robots. Her speed in 
	charging up FC Guard Crushes, however, seems faster than normal.

GCs:	Another boring detail on Tessa's part. Tessa can only turn into a Arabian 
	girl and the genie can only go in 3 different directions. Incredible range 
	though.

Proton Cannon: QCF+S
I think this is the reason why Tessa is so weak. This super causes 20% damage, 
has full screen length, is near instant and liberates many gems for Tessa. Best 
used on a blocked Shoryureppa. Surprisingly it is not recommended for fireball 
fights, because it can't neutralise fireballs. Since Tessa loses twice as much 
life, she might end up suffering more damage than she inflicted. Tessa also has 
great lag time after the super is cast. 

Robot Charge: QCB+S
If you think that the Proton Cannon Super is not good enough a reason to make
Tessa so weak, here's another reason. This super is unblockable and causes 30%
damage. Tessa turns into a charging robot. This move has less range than you
think. In fact, the target must be in the robot to cause damage. Time it right
to nail the opposition.
 
Dragon Morph: DP+S
Like Felicia's X, this move affects targets directly in front of Tessa. Tessa 
turns into the Dragon ball, in the Dragon Roll. This ball keeps expanding, 
causing damage while it grinds the enemy. Finally the dragon head emerges, and 
the full purple colour dragon that looks like a rubber ducky can be seen. Looks 
very silly, and guarantees a few laughs from the audience.

Ending:Tessa defeats Hsien-ko and acquires the stick. She uses it on herself
	and turns into a penguin (oops!) Infuriated, she has to wait 30 days
	to change back to her original form.


Hsien-ko

Story:Hsienko and Lin-Lin are looking for the vampires but have ran out of 
	money, hungry, they read the newspapers to look for a job, and find 
	that Zangief is offering one. They go in search of him.

End Boss: Zangief

Hsien-ko is a character which I hardly try, same as Felicia and Zangief, so I 
don't know much. Sorry again. A rather ordinary character.

Weapon Toss: QCF+P
Hsien-ko throws a weapon, it can be a claw, or a knife, or a shuriken, or an 
idol. Whatever. It goes over conventional fireballs and has to be timed right to 
hit. More items are thrown as lvl rises. Don't use in fireball fights. There is 
a start-up delay.

Reflect Gong: HCB+P
Hsien-ko hits a gong that creates sound waves. The wave range is variant. This 
can reflect fireballs, not super fireballs. The waves also cause massive damage. 
The only drawback is that it is relatively slow.
 
Sword Attack: HCF+K
Hsien-ko causes a large blade to rise up from the ground. At lvl 1, the blade 
goes above her. At lvl 2, the blades start to go further in range. At max lvl, 
well, what do you think?

FCs: Turns into a cook, a sleeping vampire, and some other stuff. 

GCs: Uses a large alarm clock, and other stuff.

Spike Drop: HCB+S
Pretty powerful attack. Hsien-ko hits the ground and many spike balls fall 
little. How to combo it is a problem. Pushes opponents away.

Ball Roll: HCF + S
Hsien-ko turns into a large ball and rolls over the target.

Umbrella Attack: DP+S
Hsien-ko sticks out her umbrella and uses it to toss you into the air. She then 
opens it up and spins you on the umbrella surface. Causes lots of damage and 
liberates many gems. You must be relatively close in order to connect.

Ending:???


Zangief

Story:???

End Boss:???

I only played Zangief once, so I can't remember loads of stuff. Sorry. I only 
know his normal attacks are very powerful.

Spinning piledriver: 270 degree turn + P
As if its range is not bad enough, look what they did to it now. The damage
is still massive, and it liberates loads of gems.

Spinning lariat: P+S
One hit and you fly. It is strong and lasts longer as level rises.

Glow knuckle: DP+P
Zangief spins round and swings his palm. The palm is glowing green and can 
negate fireballs. The number of hits of a fireball that he can negate depends on 
his level. The damage is also dependent on its level.

FCs:	Turns into Caveman, construction worker and Mountain climber. Slow.
	It is painful to get hit though.

GCs:	Turns into Caveman, construction worker and Mountain climber.

Final atomic buster: 270 degree + S
It has furthur range and causes 40% damage.

Birdie: HCF+S
Yes!It's the birdie that goes over fireballs. The ultimate anti-ryu super. The 
damage it causes is impressive but the gems it liberates are more often or not 
collected by the opposition instead.

Multi-kick: ??
This super is like that of Zangief's "kick your foot" super in Street fighter EX

Ending:???


Akuma

Story:	Akuma's island is over-run by tourists. Akuma has no choice but to 
		look for another island to train on.

End Boss:???

Akuma can be found by pressing left while on Ryu. He is just like what he is and 
is as useful as Ryu and Ken. Most people love to choose him, which I find silly 
as I find him a little easy to beat. This is because most people who use him 
fight like they're playing SF Alpha 2, of which the fighting technique is not 
meant for this game. I'm learning how to use Akuma now, and hope to progress 
furthur with him.

Go-Hadoken: QCF+P
Like your regular Fireball. On level 3, it is 3 hits and looks like a crystal 
ball instead.

Go-Shoryuken: DP+P
It has black flames. The damage is rather strong. Anti-air.

Hurricane Kick: QCB+K
It is a hurricane kick that on max lvl, has purple poisonous smoke emitting from 
it. The smoke seems to be able to petrify the opponent. I'm not very sure.

Air Hadoken: QCF+P (air)
It's power increases with the fireball meter. At max lvl, Akuma throws 2 
fireballs.

Teleport:???

I don't know the motion for teleporting. Apparently, the teleport seems to go 
only 1/3 the screen lenght. Looks cool.
FCs:	Turns into a samurai, surfer, and carpenter. This is the only time you can 
	see Akuma smiling.

GCs:	Use his backwards+S to turn Akuma into a carpenter with a guard crush that 
	goes 40% of the screen lenght.

Messatu-Gou-Hado: QCF+S
5 hit super fireball. Not enough damage!

Messatu-Gou-Shoryu: DP+S
A shoryu-reppa. It still looks as cool as it used to be.

Shun-Goku-Satzu or Raging Daemon: QCB+S (3 levels only)
The raging daemon. It is however very slow and therefore very hard to connect. 
Unblockable (As if you didn't know already)

Ending:???


Dan

Story:Dan is looking for a disciple to impart his fighting technique to. 
	He goes in search of Sakura, the person whom he believes is the only 
	one weaker than him.

End Boss: Sakura

Dan is my second favourite character in this game, and is fast becoming my most
fav one. He's at his most powerful in this game, and can easily match up against
all other characters. He also happens to be more funny, flashy and booby-trapped
than you think. His ending is IMHO the best. Dan, however, only liberates red
gems from the enemy. Read more to know more.

Gadouken: QCF+P
The gadouken has more range than it's other versions in other games, like MSH vs
SF for instance. The damage it causes is massive at level 3 (10%) and can easily
catch human players off-guard.

Dan kicks: QCB+K
Dan does 2 kicks on lvl 1, 3 kicks on lvl 2, and 3 kicks followed by a lvl 1
Goryuken on lvl 3, use only the lvl 3 version, for it pushes away the opposition
if blocked. The kicks however, have a slow start-up time, and Tessa or anyone
with a fireball super can nail you flat.

Goryuken: DP+P
Dan's goryuken still goes vertically up, but all the other shoryukens seem to
go vertical too. The damage is a little reasonable, Do not use beyond lvl 1, as
it leaves you open.

FCs:	Like Ryu, he hardly changes costumes. He can change into elvis and use a
	mike-stand to nail you (blockable). His best bet against the computer is
	a (P+P+P+P) FC, which end with a massive forearm. Against humans, use
	his (P+K+K+K) or similar versions that result in a Guard Crush. Ain't
	it humiliating to get caught by this?

GCs:	Dan uses a Street Sign, or yanks his father by the hair in 2 different 
	directions. (up and down)

Shinku-Gadouken: QCF+S
Do not use this super, strong as it may sound (especially from previous 
experiences with MSG vs SF), this super causes the same damage as Dan's lvl 2
gadouken. Hardly any gems liberated too.

Kouryu-rekka: DP+S
Use this if you desperately need to distance yourself. It isn't that great
on priority, and is only 2 goryukens at one go. Fortunately, it causes more
damage than the opposition expects.

Shinku-Oyajin-Hadouken aka Nose Beam: HCF+S
This super is exactly like Tessa's Proton Cannon. It however, only causes
1/2 the damage and liberates as many gems as a shinku-gadouken. Dan summons
out his father and the old man shoots a 10 -hit, rather thick beam. It looks
dangerous, but it ain't.

Super-Taunt: QCF, QCF + Start
Yes, it's the super taunt!!! This time the super lasts twice as long, is
thrice more interesting, and 10 times more hilarious. Persuade your human 
opponent to let you do the super. A definite must-see!!!

Extreme Father: QCB + S (3 levels)
This is the one most cheap, unexpected and definitely humiliating super that
you should execute on your human opposition if you're using Dan. Dan summons
out his father who will execute a Raging Daemon, while Dan himself is crying
like there's no tomorrow. Execute it as a finishing move to really make it
look cool. It is, guess what, 30% damage and UNBLOCKABLE. What's more, Dan's
father floats across the screen for about 1/5 the screen length and at twice
the speed of Akuma. Only drawback is that it liberates only red gems (tons of 
them). Use it wisely, for Dan may only be able to gather enough energy to use
it once a battle.

Okay, Okay, I may have over-rated Dan this time, so sue me. He is still the
best here, and any one who disagrees can complain if they like.


**************
5.General Tips
**************

Don't expect me to tell you how I play the game and easily trash the opposition
for they are my darkest secrets, instead here's some general  (but useful)
pieces of advice.

Just in case you didn't know, Akuma and Dan are normally selectable. Akuma is 
on the left of Ryu. Dan is on the right of Ken.

Use guard crushes wisely. Don't use them when the opponent is in your face. 
Instead time them a distance away.

Guard Crushes differ with the direction that is pressed while pushing S. 
They all have different ranges. Some go up, others down, others forward. 
Different guard crushes also liberate different gem colours.

On computers, using the same old patterns can easily knock them out, (unless 
otherwise stated. See next tip) Against humans, I hope you have mastered FCs
 with guard crushes. Otherwise, you're in for a boring and uncool fireball 
fight.

Different arcades have different difficulty settings and damage settings. 
Some arcades have the difficulty so high that the same pattern may not 
always work. In fact, some computer players will learn their mistakes from
the first round and counter with a different strategy in the second round. 
Use variety.

It is easy to go crazy into FCs, and totally forget that supers and specials do 
exist. Remember the purpose of your gems...

Dash by double tapping the joystick. You can't block as you dash. By pressing 
Punch or Kick as you dash lets you do a dashing attack. Catch humans off-guard 
with this one.

Experiment with different FCs, and style of fighting. They do you more 
good than you think.

Above all, have fun!!!


6. Acknowledgements

Only one guy has helped me so far, and that's my good pal, Donald. Over 
here in Singapore, not many people are willing to help each other in the
arcades. It's a dog eat dog world. Donald has not only introduced me to 
this game, but he also taught me how to use Flash combos with Guard 
Crushes. No joke. This guy's one friendly and helpful pal. They don't 
come in better varieties.

Thanks again, Donald.
(P.S. Donald's a Dan fanatic, and he's Dan is not to be trifled with.)

Here's a little info bout myself. I live in Singapore, see, and I love 
the arcades in here. I frequent the one in Junction 8 and the big one in 
Dhoby Ghaut. I'm still schooling, and the only reason why I'm writing 
this FAQ is because I can't seem to find a proper one on the Internet. 
I hope Gamefaqs will accept this document, because I really love 
GameFaqs and the info it provides.

Thanks GameFaqs.

One more point. This document is not supposed to be sold or have 
anything to do with any activity that results in monetary gain on the 
part of any party. I strictly don't allow this. This stuff is free, and
is written to expose more folks out there to this great game.

Written by: Seng Wai (Singapore)

