Welcome to Panic Society's listing of one liners from it's Liberal Left. It is  printed after each command. Use the computer for more detailed info.
Most feared one liners. "I'm from the Government, I'm here to help you."
"Phasing out the human race will solve every problem on earth." Les U Knight    alis for Shoko Asahura.
"You must change your thinking errors!" MTF physolocist.
"You cannot be rehabilited until you realize your thinking errors.
"Your thinking error allows you to have a reason for everything and anything."
"If you are to make changes in your life your thinking errors must be           recognized and changed."
"We need not wait for proof before taking action" Greenpeace & opposition to    chlorine and chlorinated compounds.
Animal Rights movement, a cornerstones of the formation of Panic Society.
In the Panic Society, plants and animals have the right to exist. You don't.
"The Salk Vaccine caused the needless deaths of animals." Sue Brennen PeTA.
"Animals are not ours to use for any purpose what so ever" Ingrid Newkirk.
"Man is the most dangerous, destructive selfish, and unethical animal on        earth." Michael W. Fox, Humane Society of the US
"We need a kinder, gentler, nation for animals". Betsy Pullman, 
"Beef is as great a health threat as smoking". Jerimy Rifkin.
"Dogs should not be. They are playthings created by man. Let us allow the dog   to disappear from our brick and concrete jungles." John Bryant
"The cat, like the dog, must disappear". John Bryant, "Fettered Kingdoms".
"We should cut the domestic cat free from our dominance by neutering, neutering and more neutering, until our pathetic version of the cat ceases to exist".JB
"Plucking parts from animals as desired is crude and callous;" PeTA.
"Animals are not ours to eat, wear, or experiment on." Christian Jackson PeTA
"Humans are exploiters and destroyers, self appointed world autocrats". Sydney   Singers Good Shepherd Foundation
"Humans have grown like a cancer on the Earth." Ingrid Newkirk. PeTA
"Back to the Pleistocene!" Earth First!
"I am not a morose person, but I would rather not be here. I don't have any     reverence for life." Ingrid Newkirk
"There is no rational basis for maintaining a moral distinction between the     treatment between humans & Animals"
"Screaming Wolf" A Declaration of War: Killing People to save Animals & the     Environment, Patrick Henry Press. 1991
"We have no basic right not to be harmed by those natural diseases we are       heir to" Tom Regan
"We want to stigmatize hunting, we see it as the next logical target and we     believe it's vulnerable" Wayne Percelle
"Eventually companion animals would be phased out." Ingrid Newkirk
"I don't believe humans beings have the right to life. That's a supremacist     perversion". Ingrid Newkirk. PeTA
"Even painless research is fascism, supremacism". Ingrid Newkirk
"Even if a cure for AIDS is found we'd be against it". Ingrid Newkirk
In Panic Society, property ownership is forbidden thanks to The RICO act, a law  that allows the police to seize your property for any or no reason.
Environmentalist got logging, Mining & fishing banned from the Northwest.
All dams are removed from the Columbia River for the sake of the salmon.
Lumbering is forbidden for the sake of the Spotted Owl.
The Sockeye Salmon has been declared an endangered Species by environmentalist.
Planned extinction of domestic animals is another goal of the Panic Society.
PeTA. We must pass laws to require sterilization of all domestic animals. "We   need to pass a law now to require spaying and neutering." Elane Braley
"Dog-raising among the people must be strictly controlled." Red China, 1992.
"Because the dog, is loyal to it's owner and not to the state, it must vanish."
In the Panic Society, people have become the oppressed majority.
The pristine shape of the environment is more important then a person's welfare 
The burning of fossil fuels contributes to air pollution &the greenhouse effect
"The automobile is more dangerous to this planet then Nuclear War".Al Gore
"We insulate ourselves by burning even more fossil fuel creating more Co2."AG
"The present generation of nuclear technology is at a dead end".Al Gore
In The Panic Society , human reproduction is strictly controlled.
"We must stabilize world population". Al Gore. Earth in the Balance.
"Every child is to be a wanted child". Clinton Administration.
"Legal Euthanasia. To legalize "selective" killing as 'treatment' for pain."    Right to Life
"Legal Euthanasia. To pressure helpless, weak, dying patients into accepting    voluntarily death." Right to Life
"Legal Euthanasia. To make it possible for collusion to hide intentional        killings." Right to life of Michigan
Legal Euthanasia. To create a means of disposing of difficult family members.
Panic Society will use euthanasia as a means to control population & behavior.
The Hillery Health Care Plan will pay for & encourage abortions at any time.
"The World's population is exploding by 90 million a year" Ted Turner.
"One Child per family. No exceptions." Communist China today.
"Be fruitful and multiply" Wedding vows of the evil Catholic church.
"Rape and marital sex are the same." Professor Kathryne McKennin 
"A married woman doesn't know that she is being raped when she has sex with her  husband." Kathryne McKennin 
"Then, she is raped again when she gives birth to her child." Kathryne McKennin
In Britain, a wife can have her husband charged with rape if he wants to have   sex and she doesn't.
Ms. Potelico, "Any man that gets a woman pregnant that has an abortion will get  1 to 5 years in prison."
"Consent is not meaningful if given while under the influence."
"If a man is just as drunk as the woman, there is no excuse. It is rape".
"The law needs to be there to protect the drunk from the driver of the penis!"  Mary P. Koss, University of Arizona.
"A lot of young collage woman today feel like sitting ducks!" Newsweek
"I am Womyn, I am oppressed, victimized, powerless!" NOW gang
"SUPERBOWL SUNDAY WORST DAY OF THE YEAR FOR VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN!"
Anyone that changes a kid's diapers will be charged with 3rd Degree CSC. Fail   to change the diapers and its child abuse.
"You are not fit to be a parent!" Liberals want to raise your kids for you as   they did in Nazi Germany.
"Tree planting programs... should be part of workfare programs" Al Gore
"The human race is a failed species that isn't going to be around for very      long". Robert F. Mueller. of VHEMT!
"America needs to be reduced to 10 million hunter-gatherers." RF Mueller.
"The time has come to eliminate the human race." Unsigned flyer Earth First
"Biological warfare Think about it. It's species-specific."                     Earth First Journal.
Biological warfare will have no impact in other creatures." Earth First.
"we can see AIDS not as a problem, but a necessary solution to overpopulation." Ms Ann Thropy of Earth First!
"Moonraker" a movie about creating the perfect society.
Voluntary Human Extinction Movement VHEMT! "Live Long and Die Out!"
Dave Foreman "We humans have become a disease, the Human pox."
"Four hundred fifty thousand Americans die every year from smoking illness."
"Rights, Killing, and Suffering, Moral Vegetarianism and AppliedEthics."Singer
Singer's books and articles seem to advocate euthanizing unwanted children?
"The human population should be reduced by 98%". Professor Arne D. Naess
Martin Heidigger, "an original thinker, a critic of technological society."
"The cultural politics of the Third Reich." Martin Heidigger.
The Third Reich adopted antivivisection as a national policy,
"The Third Reich experimented on humans like the Jews, Poles , and other".
Heidigger's leader, Adolph Hitler, was a vegetarian and opponent of hunting.
Possession of any animal or animal products is forbidden in the P.S.
Senator Al Gore sponsored a bill to ban trapping and make owning a fur illegal.
"There are more people killed by horses than any other animal, Jim Lolli.
"We're just trying .to protect the people and the animals," J. A. Hennessy
"The eating of rotting flesh is the main cause of heart disease and social       ills"
"It's an ethical imperative that we shouldn't be eating animals." PeTA.
Cattle raising is destroying the rain forest and creating methane. EarthFirst
85% of the U.S. topsoil loss is directly associated to livestock raising. 
"260 million acres have been cleared to create cropland for our meat centered    diet." PeTA
Livestock production consumes more then half of all water used in the U.S. PeTA
300 million pounds of meat are imported from Central and South America.
"It takes 55 square feet of Rain Forest to produce enough grazing for a          McDonald's hamburger." PeTA
PeTA Excessive protein intake causes osteoporosis,kidney disease and cancer.
PeTA Women who consume meat daily will develop breast cancer more quickly.
"100 million animals a week are killed for food in the U.S." PeTA.
90% of the beef produced in Central America goes to the United States.PeTA
One acre of trees is spared each year by people who become vegetarian. PeTA.
Cattle feed includes shredded newspapers feathers, sawdust, plastic and sewage.
"It takes 1000 gallons of water to produce a hamburger." AR Activists
"Cows and Sheep are destroying the grazing lands that are needed by deer.
Animal Rights Activists say that farmers nail the feet of veal calves to the     barn floor.
40,000,000 cattle, 88,000,000 hogs, and 7 billion chickens are killed for food.
"Minks generate methane gas which is causing the ozone hole in the Antarctic"
Kathlyn Thulburg, Larry King Show, CNN.
40 percent of people killed by falling off horses had been drinking.
200,000,000 animals will be shot to death by hunters each year.
It takes about 21 arrows shot before one actually hits a deer. (PeTA).
The book "101 Ways to Save the Animals" explains how you can spoil the hunt.
Members of PeTA were arrested for harassing hunters in Michigan in 1990.
Hunter deliberately increase the deer population each year to murder them.
Hunters burn, clear cut, bulldoze and spray defoliant on forest each year.
Karen Cotton, insists that the deer need to be given some kind of birth        control.
It's time that we ended this frenzy of killing for fun." O.L.
The solution to deer overpopulation is to round them up and sterilize them.
House cats are banned near San Francisco because they hunt an endangered        species of mice in local wetlands.
Fish are contaminated with toxic chemicals such as PPB, PCB, & Mercury.
"People that fish as exploiting animals for their own greed." PeTA.
The only religion allowed in the Panic Society is that of the worship of GAIA.
"Catholic priests are child molesters". From the liberal news media.
"The Boy Scouts is a magnet for pedophiles." 25000 page document being used to  destroy a christian origination.
"I didn't do it! Nobody saw me do it! You can't prove anything." Ted Kennedy.
"We wish you a merry CENSORED!" ACLU solution to removing Christ from Xmas.
"Religion is the opium of the people." Karl Marx.
Liberals always hold others to very high standards they exempt themselves from.
"Teen girls never lie!" Plaska's closing argument as a friend of mine gets 20   years on hearsay evidence.
"Boys will be boys". Excuse used by liberals to explain why teen boys are not   responsible for their behavior.
"Heather has two mommies" and "Daddy's Roommate". Required reading New York     Public Schools. First grade.
"Snow White", Banned from the public schools due to violence.
"The belly Button Defense". A book on basketball banned because of perceived    reference to sex.
'Kiddie Porn". any photo of kids in which they are topless or naked. This       includes your baby pictures.
"The Fine Art of Dumpster Dining" A video Produced by Project Dignity. for       viewing by the homeless.
"Parents don't have absolute rights." Howard Davidson, kids suing parents.
"For us, the barking of dogs is a wonderful mystery." Coppinger
The Flower Children of yesterday are the Blooming Idiots in Washington today!
It is now illegal to take your children for a hike in California's Caspers      Park. Mountain lions have more rights!
Warning! the next one liner will wipe out your display. go to another room      restore. This one liner exist!
"Buttocks: The area at the rear of the human body (sometimes referred to as the glutaeus maximus) which lies between two imaginary lines running parallel to the ground when a person is standing" the first or top of such line being one-half 
inch below the top of the vertical cleavage of the nates (i.e., the prominence  formed by the muscles running from the back of the hip to the back of the leg)  and the second or bottom line being one-half inch above the lowest point of the
curvature of the fleshy protuberance (sometimes referred to as the gluteal      fold), and between two imaginary lines, one on each side of the body (the       "outside lines"), which outside lines are perpendicular to the ground and to the
horizontal lines described above and which perpendicular outside lines pass     through the outermost point(s) at which each nate meets the outer side of each  leg," (Liberal def.)
Webster's New World Dictionary defines the buttock simply as "the rump."
Liberals love to generate paperwork.
The Kennedy assisnation report contains over 100,000 documents. This translates  into 400 10" boxes of paper.
"If you can control yourself for one day, you can control yourself, any day"    Joe Fay, The great sex out day.
"Where's Waldo?" Well, he's not in the Springs Public School library. Another   book banned by Liberals.
"When guns are outlawed, only the outlaws will have guns." NRA
"Will you have sex with me," "Lets go all the way!", "Do you think I'm sexy?",   Top 40 hits.
End of PC Message base.

