  Compilers Note: I assume this is the solution for the "The Caped
  Crusader" game, as it IS for a batman game, and it IS NOT for the
  "The Movie" game!
  Move right, pick up the disk and carry on right to the end of the
  corridor.  Go down through the door, continue right and collect the
  key and badge.  Move left until you get to the spanner, pick it up,
  use it and then drop it.  Continue left and collect the grenade, then
  go right and up through the door.  Go right until you reach the room
  captioned `Insert the disk' and use the disk.  Go up through the door
  and leave the cave.
  Move right until you get to the ladder and climb it, collect the banana
  which you can eat to replenish your energy.
  Return to street level and go right (show the badge to the policeman
  and continue right!) to collect the Batrope.  If you hit the Penguin's
  men with your Batarang eight times they will drop a packet of crisps
  which you can eat to increase your energy.
  Go left and collect the sweet (this, like the banana restores all your
  energy).  Carry on left and climb the ladder, move right until you get
  to the torch, pick it up and go back right until you get to the ladder.
  Return to street level and go right, collect the trainers and carry on
  to the warehouse ladder.  Climb the ladder and go right till you get
  to the door, use the key and drop it then enter the warehouse.  Go left
  to the end of the corridor and through the door, go right and then enter
  through the door.  Move right until you get to the room called `Shadows
  everywhere' and go through the door.  Go left and collect the bread, then
  right till you reach the dead end.  Use the grenade to blast the wall and
  go through the door.  Go right and up through the door, carry on to the
  end of the corridor and through the door.  Continue right till you get
  to the room called `Getting you down' and use the Batrope.  Walk left
  and collect the lift key, now use the trainers.
  Move right and up through the door, go right and then down through the
  door.  Go left and down through the door and use the torch.  Go right,
  up through the door and left, collect the dart and go back to the place
  where you landed when you dropped in on the Batrope and use the lift key
  on the lift, drop the key and go through the door and along the corridor
  until you reach the room called `Shadows everywhere'.
  Go through to door and left and throw the dart at the dartboard and pick
  up the passcard.  Leave the warehouse and go right and return to street
  level.
  Go right and stop at the screen called `Clue: pass it on' and use the
  passcard to enter.  Go left and up through the door, collect the key and
  leave the room, go right and up through the second door, then go left and
  through the door.  Go left and up the stairs then right to the end of the
  corridor and through the door, pick up the tape and then go left and
  through the door.  Now go right and through the door using the key.  Pick
  up the disk and go down through the door, head right and through the
  door, carry on right and collect the trumpet then go left and put the
  virus disk in the Penguin's Computer.
  His plan has failed and you have saved the day (again!).
