			      - ARGUS V1.2 -

			     by Craig Burlock

			     © Copyright 1995

Argus should work on all Amigas with at least 1Mb of Chip RAM.  Argus  runs
in both PAL and NTSC screens.

It has been tested and works on:
    - A500 1 MB (Chip)
    - A600 1 MB
    - A600 1MB, 40 MB Hard Disk
    - Standard A1200HD/40
    - A1200, Blizzard '030 with Fast RAM

The Story:

    Due to the surplus of B grade fighter pilots, you have been volunteered
    to  undertake  a  morale  boosting mission which involves attacking the
    invading alien's home world, causing as much damage as possible  before
    being shot down and killed.

    If you survive attacking the invader's home world, than you are ordered
    to assist in the defence of a strategic mining moon which the enemy  is
    using as a base.

    If  successful  in  attacking the alien's home world and reclaiming the
    strategic point, then, due  to  the  improbability  of  surviving  both
    missions, you are ordered to single handedly destroy the alien invasion
    fleet as it moves towards Earth.

Register Now:

    There is more than one good reason for registering  your  own  copy  of
    Argus,  that  is giving an old computer a well earned rest. My A500 has
    worked hard for a very long time, is now very,  very  tired  and  would
    like  nothing  better  than  to  retire  for  a well earned rest and be
    replaced by an A1200. Not only would you be making my A500 very  happy,
    but  your investment will be well used in purchasing Amiga hardware and
    helping to ensure the  financial  wellbeing  of  Amiga  technology  for
    yourself and your children.

    To register, just send your full name and address and the equivalent of
    10 Australian Dollars to the address below:

       Craig Burlock
       14 Stevens Avenue
       Salisbury Heights
       South Australia
       Australia 5109

    I can be contacted via  email  at  pjmulhol@teaching.cs.adelaide.edu.au
    before March 1996 or e3pjmulh@brunel.aelmg.adelaide.edu.au after then.

    This shareware version can (and should:) be freely distributed provided
    all  files  remain  intact.  Ofcourse the registered version may not be
    distributed.

    I give my permission for Argus  to  be  used  for  magazine  coverdisks
    (providing I recieve a free copy :-))

    See my other Aminet contributions:

       "Kill the Little Dudes" - Action platform shoot-em-up.
	     game/jump/KTLD.lha
       "Tetriz"                - Polished Tetris clone.
	     game/think/Tetriz.lha

Controls:

    Use the Joystick in port 1.
    Hold Fire down to use the Red "L" Beam Weapon powerup.
    Use the left mouse button to pause the game in play.
    Use the Esc key to quit from the title screen.

Why Version 1.2:

    Why version 1.2, you ask... Well, I recieved feedback about my original
    upload, in which the following points were made...

    - There just aint nothin' good on telly.
    - My head hurts.
    - My stomache hurts.
    - Although easier than many fine, not to mention top selling, commercial
      shoot-em-ups, Argus is just too hard.
    - I wanted a white Christmas.
   
    Seeing this error in my judgement when determining just how difficult a
    shoot-em-up  should  be,  I immediately neuted my original code so that
    even the non-sentient members of our society can now complete the first
    few  stages with relative ease, and then dance around at thier enormous
    personal achievement.

    The origional registration system has not been  changed,  so  that  any
    registration codes from the first version will still work in this one.

    Seriously though, thanks for the feedback :-)

This game was written to the following Albums:  

    Pearl Jam - Ten
    Pearl Jam - Verses
    Pearl Jam - Vitology
    Pearl Jam - Jeremy (Single)
    R.E.M - Automatic For The People
    Live - Throwing Copper
    Live - Mental Jewelry
    Nirvana - Bleach
    Nirvana - Nevermind
    Nirvana - Unplugged in New York
    Bush - Sixteen Stone
    Big Heavy Stuff - Covered in Bruises (EP)

Once more, thanks to Fil (Philip Mulholland) for  his  time,  patients  and
coffee.

Bugs :(

    Argus should be run from the Workbench (If you want sprites :) not  the
    Startup-Sequence (This is due to a bug in the compiler).
