Groundwars - Waponez 2
First BETA-release (971130)
Created by Marcus "Mopz" Johansson
Copyright© 1997 NC.Gamez

This version is freeware; you may play and distribute it freely, but you may
NOT  change  the archive! The game must be spread in it's original state, or
not spread at all!
   I am not  responsable for any damages caused by this game. You play it at
your own risk!

Created  using  Blitz Basic; Acid Software, Personal Paint; Cloanto and Pro-
tracker; Cryptoburners.



Introduction

This  is  the first beta-release of Groundwars - Waponez 2. The full version
of  Waponez  is  available from Aminet for free. It's nice, and the music is
ok, but the game is too slow to be fully entertaining *sigh*
   This game is to be  what Waponez never was - fast,  smooth and hyper. But
I'm  not  really  sure  if  I've  succeeded very well. That is up for you to
decide!  If  many  of you players believe that it can be a good game, I will
make  a  real  game  of it, but not else. Please tell me your opinion via an
e-mail!



Requirements and usage

This  game'll  probably  run on any AGA amiga, but it has been developed on-
and-for  a  030-processor with fastram. I think that the speed is ok even on
a standard a1200.
   The game will  shut down the multitasking.  It's very important  that all
the  files  are presented as when de-archived. The font from the font-drawer
should be copied to yer own FONTS: - the game WILL run without it, but...



How to play

There's  no  real  point in playing it, as there are no bosses or other. But
there  are  some  nice  bonuses  to  pick  up  for better weapons, score and
shield.  You  have  an infinite amount of lives, but everytime you get blown
into tiny pieces, your weapon will be reduced.
   PRESS LEFT MOUSEBUTTON TO EXIT THE GAME!



I'm sorry about

The  game  gets  boring  VERY  easy. But this will change when I add bosses,
bonusgames,  more  enemy-patterns  etc. The block-gfx were made in some very
few minutes, so they're not very detailed. I will add LOADS of gfx later1



Contact me!

Yes,  I  want  to  know what You think about this game, so please send me an
e-mail!  If  you're interrested in putting this game on a magazine coverdisk
or -CD, you MUST tell me first (so that I can send you the latest version)!
   All suggestions for what must be in the real game are wellcome!

E-mail:
   marjoh@algonet.se (this is the adress I prefer)
   mopz@hotmail.com 
   mopz.ncg@mailcity.com
   or ncgamez@hotmail.com  (use  one of these  if you plan  to include files
larger than 500 kb)

Want  to know more about NC.Gamez, and perhaps check out some other games? -
Then you must visit our www-homepage!

http://www.algonet.se/~marjoh
   Är du svensk,  kan du dessutom  besöka vår BBS på 0430-70573.  Som medlem
där, här du vissa förmåner vad gäller priserna på våra spel :)



Some 'hellos' flies out to:
   Maze - for being part of the NC.Gamez crew!
   Mr. Byte - for making the game AmiBee, and being a nice pal ;)
   Peter Fischer - for being a cool e-mail friend!
   Audrey Mc. Calla - contact me if you read this, Audrey!
   Damir Ahr - for being the first one to pay for FaYoh!
   Joe - Good luck with Pulsator :)
   Ariana Richards - for being the second best looking gal on this planet!
   ...
   Uhm..? - What the hell; HELLOS TO ALL OF YOU NC.GAMEZ FANS!!! I know that
you're out there... hidden or not.