IMPERATOR QUICKSTART
 ====================

1. The game loads into the strategic module (the big map). Start by
   increasing your cash: on the control panel, click the 'Economy'
   icon, then, on the control tower, select 'Buy/Sell wheat or wine',
   and sell all your reserves. If you think this is an improvident
   thing to do, just trust me, you don't need reserves right now, you
   need cash. I made the game, so I should know :-)

2. On the same control tower, unactivate the supplies of wheat and
   wine to the legions. (I bet you're worrying again... Don't worry,
   your legion won't rebell, provided you assign a very good tribune
   to it, which you'll do at step 4).

3. Now grab some easy money: on the control panel, select 'invoke the
   gods' and invoke Mercury. He will treble your cash instantly. Nice
   guy, eh? Unfortunately, you cannot resort to him too often...

4. Assign the very best tribune to your legion. Select 'legion
   management' (control panel) then 'Appoint a tribune' and choose
   Fabulus. His charisma will help you out in the early years.

5. Now the serious stuff begins. You're going to send your legion into
   a barbaric land in order to 'pacify' the place. Click on your
   legion camp in Italy, using the RIGHT mouse button. Confirm your
   choice on the selector.
   Flashing arrows indicate the possible destinations for your legion:
   select Dalmatia, it's an easy one. Threaten the local chieftain
   (just for fun), and after he's given you a piece of his mind, select 
   the final option 'Pacify!'.

6. A battle is about to take place. You don't need to command in
   person, just let Fabulus win the battle against the
   Dalmatians. (Select 'Delegate').

7. Dalmatia is now a Roman province. You must invest in it, using the
   small investment icons on the bottom left side of the control
   panel. Develop the province to the limit and plant wheat fields.

8. Go back to the to economy options and buy up wheat. Your cash will
   be zero, that doesn't matter, only the global richness counts, and
   it's going to increase with the wheat quotations.

9. Check your prestige and your political backing. ('Roman
   politics'). The prestige bar should have gone up somewhat, which
   means your next promotion is closer!  Remember, you must do
   whatever you can to push that prestige bar towards the top. Deliver
   speeches, distribute wheat to the hungry populace, bribe
   Senators... and of course, win battles!

10. You are now ready to end the first turn of the game. Click the
    rightmost button on the control panel. This year, try to pacify
    Helvetia, for instance, and command in person. Good luck!
