  Compilers note: This is a partial solution, but the complete solution
  should be in the next release, so stay with it, WONDERLAND freaks!
  Start:
  East, Get pear, Go west, Go west, Wait for rabbit, Follow rabbit
  across field, Down hole, Get jar.
  Underground:
  Move leaves, Get key, Go to hall, Get bottle from table, Get box from
  under table, Wait for rabbit, Get fan and gloves, Go to music room, Take
  music sheet when chair is near piano, Stand on chair and drink potion,
  Open piano and Enter it, Get key and Leave piano, Get C Key, Go to closet,
  Open it with C Key, Get overalls, Get hanger and card shoe, Go to hall,
  Open fan and use it, Wear overalls, Wait for rabbit,  Open curtain, Open
  tiny door with G key, East.
  Gates:
  Get stick and Go along wiggly path until you come to fork, Take fork.
  Rabbits House:
  Go to rabbits house, Get peg from line, Untie line, Take line, Open door
  and Enter, Go up, Open clock and get card, Look in basket and Get pouch,
  Go down to kitchen, Get egg, Get cup from cupboard, Go to garden, Move
  heap with fork, Get card, East, Put hanger in vice, Pull hanger, Open
  Vice, Go upstairs to rabbits bedroom, Put music under door, Put wire in
  hole, Get music, Get key, Drop music, Drop hanger, Open door with key,
  Enter, Get bottle from shelf, Get fan and gloves from drawers and bed.
  Palace Grounds:
  Go to palace grounds, Get gardening gloves and Wear them.
  Beaver Hole:
  Go to Beaver hole, Enter hatch, Get lard from tub, East, Get tea chest,
  South-west, Fold napkin and Take it, East, Get sack and Open it.
  Walnut Tree:
  Go to Walnut tree, Up, West, Tie line to limb, Drop line, Down, Get
  hedgehog, Put it in sack and Close sack, Go up.
  Duchess's House:
  Go to Duchess's house, North, East, Put peg on nose, Remove gazettes,
  Get card, Get lens from case on bookcase, North-east, East, Remove
  shoes and Drop them, Get slippers from under bed and wear them.  West,
  South, East, Pull rope, West, Get knife and key from table, (All the
  following in ONE command!:) Open cupboard, Get jug, Close cupboard,
  East, Pull rope, West, North, Down, East, Open cabinet with glass key,
  Get pass.
  Fountain:
  Go to fountain, Hold potion bottle in mist.
  Horse Chestnut tree:
  Go to tree, Fill saucer with cream from jug, Get sugar.
  Mushroom:
  Go to Mushroom, Give sherbert to caterpiller (note which side of the
  mushroom gives what effect), Cut left/right side of mushroom with
  knife (you need one piece of growth mushroom and the rest, shrink
  mushroom, put in seperate containers and keep track of it).
  Palace:
  Go to Palace, Enter and show pass to guard, Give pink gloves and fan
  to Rabbit, West, Get hook from coat-of-arms, Go to conservatory and get
  handle, Go to throne room, Get growth chunk and Eat it, Stand on Queen's
  throne, Pull bell pull, Get down, South, Get card, North, Go to kitchen,
  Get steak, South-West, Open door with cellar key, North-East, Ask Chef
  about paper, Go upstairs to landing.
