                INFIDEL Part One

 A word or two before we start: throughout the pyramid, you will
come across a number of hieroglyphic symbols. These symbols, when
properly translated, contain clues and hints to solving the
various puzzles presented in the game. Since you are using this
walkthru, I will not be translating the hieroglyphics. However,
should you want to try your hand at it, look in the Hints
section, where I've given approximate translations of some of the
hieroglyphs found in the game.  Well, here you are, lying in your
cot, trying to shake off the effects of a drug given you by your
absconding workers. Since time is of the essence (isn't it
always?), get up, then leave the tent and make your way due South
to the Work Tent. Along the way, make sure you pick up the
matches near the Fire Pit. The tin foil, which is an empty
cigarette pack, can be safely ignored.  Now, while you're doing
this, a plane will appear overhead. It has the navigation box
you've been waiting for. However, since you also have this
walkthru, you don't really need the box. So, whether or not you
want to take it is up to you (if you do, it is used in
conjunction with the map that comes with the game; you have to
dig where the "X" is).  In the Work Tent is a knapsack that
contains a rope and a canteen. Open the sack and get the canteen,
then get the sack, which will automatically go over your
shoulders. Return to the Fire Pit, then go due West to the Supply
Tent. Take both the axe and the shovel, step outside, and then
walk North, and West. This brings you to a river bank. Open the
canteen and fill it with water.  Head East and you will be
outside your tent again. Enter it, and break the lock on the
trunk. Get and drop the lock, then open the trunk. Inside is some
food, a map and an inspection sticker. Get the food and the map.
Inside the map is a stone cube, which you will soon need to enter
the pyramid, so make sure you take that. The map you can drop,
and the sticker you don't need for anything, but you might want
to read it before moving on.  Now, go outside the tent, and go
East to the North Path. Follow the path South until you come to
the South path. From here, go East twice. You are now at the spot
where the pyramid is buried. Start digging until you find the top
of the pyramid with the square hole in it. When that appears, put
the cube in the hole, and the door to the pyramid will open. Drop
the shovel, since you won't be needing it anymore (also the box,
if you have it with you). Go down into the pyramid.  You stand in
the Chamber of Ra, near an altar. Drop your sack, and get the
rope. Tie the rope to the altar, and then throw the rope North.
You will be climbing down that way soon. In the meantime, get the
torch and the jar. Open the jar, which has oil inside, and dip
the torch in it. Light a match, then light the torch. Close the
jar, and put that and the matches in the sack. Now get the sack,
and you're ready for your explorations.  (Note: Somewhere along
the way, you will get hungry. When that happens, just eat the
beef, and then drink a little water). Climb down the rope, and
you will be in the Circular Room. Here you see a golden cluster,
a statue and four doorways with counter-balanced doors. If you
attempt to go down any of the passageways, you will find that a
door will descend and prevent you from going more than about
halfway along the corridor. So, what you need to do is find a way
of keeping the doors up while you explore the passages.
Fortunately, there is an easy, if tedious, way to do this.  Roll
the statue towards one of the passageways (For example: "Roll
statue NW"). The first time, the statue will fall, and the head
will break off (ho hum). Get the head, then roll the statue into
a passageway, and make sure you drop the head with the statue as
well. Now, you can go to the opposite passageway, and pick up the
treasure that's there. You will have to roll the statue (and
don't forget the head!), into each of the four passages in turn,
so that you can get all four of the jeweled clusters. To continue
with the example, so you know exactly what has to be done, after
rolling the statue into the NW passage, go back to the SE
passage, and you will be able to proceed to the room that has the
opal cluster of Neith.  As you get each cluster, drop it off in
the Circular Room. When you have all five clusters, drop the
sack, and put all the clusters in it. The gold one is just a
treasure, but the other four will have a very important purpose
later. For now, climb back up the rope into the Chamber of Ra.   

             INFIDEL Part Two

 OK, now we're going to visit the Barge Room and its environs.
Head along South to the landing, and continue down to the Narrow
Hall. From there, go NE then NW, and you are in the Barge
Chamber. You will be visiting the Barge itself in a short while;
for the moment, go West, then North, then East, and you will be
behind the Barge, where a hallway starts. Go all the way North
along this hallway to the Inner Chamber. Ignore the corpse, which
is wearing a jeweled ring. The ring is not a treasure in the game
(no points for getting it), and is in fact a deadly trap, so it's
best not to touch it.  From the Inner Chamber, go West to the
Golden Room, and then South to the Golden Alcove. Pick up the
Gold Chalice, then return to the Inner Chamber, and from there go
East to the Silver Room, and South to the Silver Alcove. Guess
what's here? Right, a Silver Chalice. Pick that up, and return to
the Barge Room.  Once in the Barge Chamber, go back to the front
of the boat, then enter it by going North. You are in the middle
of the Barge, and there is a mast here. At the moment, it's
somewhat stuck, but there's an easy way around that. Go East into
the Aft Cabin, Down into the hold, then West into the West End of
the hold.  Here the mast ends in a slot. If you look in the slot,
you will see a piece of wood (called a "shim"), wedged in the
slot to hold the mast in place. Get the shim and drop it (has no
use in the game). Now return to the deck and get the beam. If you
like, you can go West to enter the Fore Cabin to read the little
scroll of hieroglyphics, although that isn't necessary.  Go back
to the Chamber of Ra. From there, go East into the Cube Room,
then West, then South. You will be in front of a panel with some
bricks in it. Remove and drop the First, Third, and Fifth Bricks.
When you remove the Fifth one, a secret passageway to the East
will open. Go through it to the Turning Passage, then down to the
bottom of the stairs.

                 INFIDEL Part Three

  Use your pick to dig the plaster away from the door, then go
West to through the Narrow Passage until you come to the room
with the two niches. Here's where the fun starts. Put the beam in
the niches, then stand on it. Dig away the plaster with your axe.
As you do so, the floor will fall away (nasty little trap,
that!). Fortunately, since you're standing on the beam, you're
safe.  Okay, now open the door and go West into the Antechamber.
Since there are still a few other sneaky things to avoid, get the
beam, then go South. This is another antechamber, with a door in
the west wall. Of course, there is also a trap here for the
unwary, so put the beam in the door. Now you can open the door
safely. So, do that, and go West into the Slab Room.  (Note:
somewhere along the line here your torch will start to sputter.
When that happens, get the jar and the matches from your pack.
Light a match, then turn off the torch and dip it in the oil.
Your match will go out, but you will then have time to light
another one so you can light the torch. After this, you can leave
the jar and matches because you are near the end of the game and
won't need them any more.)  Here is a slab with holes in each of
its four corners. In fact, the placement of the holes is very
reminiscent of the Circular Room. So, drop the pack, and take out
the four jeweled clusters (the gold one you can leave in there).
Now, put the clusters in the Slab as follows: Diamond in the
First Hole; Ruby in the Second Hole; Emerald in the Third Hole;
Opal in the Fourth Hole. As each one is inserted into its hole,
there will be a click from the slab. Once the last cluster is in
place, you can raise the slab.  Inside you will find a golden
spatula and a book. Get the book. The spatula can be left in the
slab, unless you want to read the hieroglyphics in the book (you
need the spatula to turn the pages). In any case, you have what
you came for, so pick up the pack and go East back to the
Antechamber, and get the beam. Now go North twice to the
Antechamber with the timbered door. As you may have guessed, this
door is also trapped.  Put the beam under the timber, then break
the seal on the door (that beam certainly comes in handy!). Now,
open the door and go North into the Burial Chamber, then East
into the Treasury, where the scales are. You must balance the
scales to be exactly even with the table top in order to safely
take the scarab. So, drop the sack, and get the two chalices. Put
the Gold Chalice on either of the scales. Fill the silver chalice
with water, and put it on the other scale. Now, you can get the
scarab.  Return to the Burial Chamber. Place the book in the
large recess and the scarab in the small recess. There will be a
click from the statues that hold the sarcophagus cover in place.
Now, turn the statues in the following order: Neith, Selkis,
Isis, Nephthys.  At this point, you have your perfect score. If
you continue the game by opening the sarcophagus, you will die;
there is no way around that. Thus you can see that is would have
been better, if you had treated your crue better. Perhaps you'd
had a chance to survive and get home with the treasures. This
ending gives a perfect meaning to the title of the game
'Infidel', but what would you do, if someone bullied you around
all the time? Just sit back and think about what would have been,
if....
