                Sorcerer Part I

 Well, you took care of Krill and returned to the Guild Hall in
triumph, but things don't look good for you at the moment. Not
when you're standing there facing the slavering jaws of a vicious
hellhound! Fortunately for you, this time, it's only a dream, so
just wait, and you will wake up in your room in the Guild Hall.
Whew!  However, it's a bit dark in here, so Frotz your spellbook,
get up, and head West into the hallway. Read the note on your
door if you like, although it's not all that important. It just
lets you know you are here alone. Now's a good a time as any to
tell you that not all the spells you know will be useful in the
game, nor all the potions you will find. So unless you're told
specifically to take an item, you can safely ignore it.  Now,
head along South down the hall until you reach the Lobby. Go West
into the Store Room, and pick up the Ochre Vial and the
matchbook. Open the vial and drink the potion, which will prevent
you from becoming hungry and thirsty. Drop the now-empty vial.
Read the matchbook if you like, then return East and place the
matchbook in the receptacle.  Moving North twice, and West once,
brings you to Belboz's quarters. Listen to the bird as you lift
the wall hanging, revealing a key. Now examine the desk and open
the drawer. Inside are several items, but the only useful one is
the journal. Use the key to unlock the journal, then read it.
Make *careful* note of the day's code!!  Go East to the hall
again, South once, and West into Helistar's room. Here you will
find a scroll of Gaspar. Take and Gnusto the scroll, then head
back to the hall, and South to the Lobby. By this time, you've
probably heard the doorbell chime, which means the mail's in.
Open the receptacle, and inside is an issue of Popular Enchanting
and an Orange Vial. Get the vial, then go East into the Library. 
There is a scroll of Meef here. Get and Gnusto that one. Now,
it's time to leave this place. If you've played the game before,
you know that if you try going out the main entrance, you will be
stopped. You may also know that if you DON'T get out, you will
eventually fall asleep and find yourself in the Room of Living
Death, which is MOST unpleasant, and from which there is no
escape.  So, now's the time to get a move on! Head down into the
Cellar, where the trunk is. There are five buttons on the trunk,
and each one is a different color. The sequence to open the trunk
is keyed to the code of the day in the journal, and will change
with each game. The code itself is the colors of a monster from
the Infotater. Whatever monster was noted in the journal, look it
up on the Infotater, and make note of its colors, and what order
they are in. Save the game (just in case, because if you make
even one little error, you will not be able to open the trunk!!),
then press the buttons in the proper order as given in the
Infotater. If you've done it right, the trunk lid will spring
open by itself after you push the last button. If the trunk does
not open, restore the game and try again.  Ok, so now you have
the moldy scroll of Aimfiz, which is one of those complex ones
that you can only use once. Actually, you only need to use it
once, so that's no problem. All you have to do is figure out
which person you want to exchange places with. Since there aren't
too many choices, it won't take you long to discover it's none
other than Belboz himself. So, Aimfiz Belboz, and you're out of
the Hall and on your way to visiting Jeear!

                  Sorcerer Part II

 Ok, so now you're out of the Hall, but look where the spell took
you: to the same forest you were dreaming of at the start of the
game. And there's the Hellhound, too! And this time, it's no
dream! You better not wait around this time, so immediately head
Northeast to the Forest Edge.  Here you will find a Snake Hole,
as well as paths North and East. The North path is mined with
magical mines. This is a red herring in the game, as there is no
way to go safely along the path. You can ignore it without fear
of missing something important. The Snake Hole is another matter,
so climb down into it, and then down again to the Slimy Room, and
South from there into the Crater.  Go West to the Chasm's Edge.
You can't jump across the chasm, but flying over is no problem.
Learn Izyuk twice, cast it on yourself once. Now just go West
twice and you will be on the other side. Go North, and you will
be in a room with what appears to be a tree of coins. However,
that's an illusion, and you will only be able to get one coin.
Take it, return to the Chasm Edge, then Izyuk and fly back
across.  Now go back the way you came, all the way to the Forest
Edge. This time, go East to the Meadow (don't stop to admire
scenery; those are MEAN locusts on the horizon!), then Northeast
to the Riverbank. Learn the Pulver spell, then Pulver the river.
It will dry up, and you can move East into the river, where you
will see a small cave to the Northeast. Go there.  Inside, you
will find several items. Get the scroll with the Fweep spell, and
Gnusto it. Then get the bat guano, but leave the vial; it has no
use in the game. Now go down the hole, and you will be at the Pit
of Bones. If you go South, you will find the Torture Chamber,
which has another useless potion, so go Southwest into the
Dungeon instead. From here, go up into the Ruins.  Learn Izyuk
again, then go West across the drawbridge (careful, don't fall
in!!), then West again to the Meadow, where you now cast Izyuk on
yourself. You have time to do that and move before the locusts
arrive. Once you're flying, go Northeast to the Riverbank, and
this time, Southeast to the Fort Entrance. You need to use Izyuk
because the river bank has a distressing tendency to crumble
after the first visit.  Around about now, you're probably feeling
sleepy. Don't worry about it, just lie down and sack out for
awhile. You may or may not have a strange dream. Ignore any
dreams, as they are just "for show", and have no important clues
to the game. When you waken again, go East into the Parade
Ground. There is a flag at the top of a tall flagpole; lower the
flag and search it. You will find an Aqua Vial. Take that, it
will come in handy later.  Now, go East again, and you will be at
the cannon. If you look inside, you will see what appears to be a
pile of scrolls. Actually, they are not scrolls at all, but a
group of Yipples, peacefully sleeping in the barrel. However,
there IS one real scroll in there, and you will need it later.
So, drop the bat guano into the barrel, and the Yipples will take
off, leaving the real scroll, with the Yonk spell for you to
take.  You are now just about finished above ground. Return to
the entrance, learn Izyuk twice, and fly Northwest to the River
Bank, and SouthWest to the meadow. Here you should Izyuk again
(the drawbridge is like the river bank) and go East twice to the
Ruins.

                 Sorcerer Part III

 From the Ruins, go down into the Dungeon, down again to the
Highway, and then East to the Toll Gate and the sleeping Gnome.
Wake him up and give him your Zorkmid. He'll open the gate, then
promptly fall asleep again. Go East through the gate.  Ignore the
store; that's another red herring in the game. Continue East to
the End of the Highway. There's a hut here, but we won't be
looking in there just now. Instead, go North to the Entrance
Hall, and then North again to the Glass Arch. You are about to
enter the infamous Glass Maze.  Getting through it the first time
is quite easy; getting out again is quite another matter. There
are two ways back, the long and hard way, or the quick and dirty
way. If you want to go the easy route, learn Gaspar once and
Fweep once, then Gaspar yourself right now. If you want do to it
the hard way, learn Fweep three times.  Ok, drop everything here,
go East into the Maze, and Fweep yourself. Now fly along the
following route: North, East, South, South, West, Down, East,
East, North, North, Up, Up, South, East and you're now at the
Hollow. Here you will find the Swanzp scroll, but you can't do
much until Fweep wears off. So wait around until you're human
again.  As soon as you pick up the scroll, the maze layout will
change. Oops! Now what? Well, first, drop the scroll down the
hole (it's the chimney of the little hut). Now what you do next
depends on how you decided to get back out. If you opted for
quick and dirty, walk West, West, South, East, and you will fall
through the Maze and splatter. However, the Gaspar spell will
activate, and your Guardian Angel will restore you to life at the
spot the spell was cast, which in this case was the Glass Arch. 
However, if you want to do it the hard way, then here's how:
Fweep yourself, then fly the following route: West, West, South,
Down, Down, West, West, Up, Up, North, North, Down, East. At
about this point, the spell will wear off. Fweep again, and
continue: South, East, North, Down, West, South, West, Up, West,
and you're back at the Arch again. Whew!!  Again, wait around
till the spell wears off, then pick up everything and go to the
hut. In the fireplace, you will see the Swanzo scroll. Gnusto the
spell, and then take a nap, because by now you're tired again. 
Awakening refreshed, leave the hut and head on back to the Toll
Gate. The Gnome is still here, and still asleep, so now's your
chance: search him, and you will find your Zorkmid! All right!
Now, keep going West until you come to the Bend, where you head
Southwest to the Edge of the Crater, then Down into the crater
itself. From there, move along South into the North/South tunnel,
and the Southwest to the Amusement Park Entrance.

                Sorcerer Part IV

 Try to go West, and a Gnome will appear and demand a Zorkmid.
Give him your coin, and then proceed West into the park. Of all
the places here, only one is important: the Arcade. Everything
else is pretty much for show. So, keep on West until you reach
the end of the Midway, and then go South into the Arcade.  Open
the Aqua Vial, drink the potion, then drop the vial. You are now
dexterous enough to win a prize, so take the ball and throw it at
a bunny. POW! Direct hit! As the bunny goes flying, the hawker
will give you a glittering scroll of Malyon. You don't need to
Gnusto this one, as it will be used only once, and very soon. 
Now leave the park, and once back in the tunnel, go south and you
will be in the Carving Room. One carving looks like a dragon, and
that's the one you want. First, Yonk Malyon. Then, learn Malyon.
Finally, Malyon Dragon. The souped-up spell brings the Dragon to
life! Good thing for you it's not permanent, or you might have
been fried to a crisp! In any case, there is now a passage South
through the wall. Take that into the Sooty Room.  Now you're
about to enter the most bizarre part of the game. Open the Orange
Vial. Frotz yourself. Go East into the Coal Bin room. There will
be a cave-in behind you, so you can't go back now. In addition,
you're having some some trouble breathing, so drink the orange
potion and drop the vial. Suddenly, your Older Self appears,
sliding down from the Upper Chute! Listen carefully, and your
twin will tell you a number. Make careful note of it! Now, hand
your spellbook to your Twin, who will take it and dive down the
Lower Chute.  Go East to the Dial Room. There is a dial on the
door, which can be set to any number from 0-873. Set it to the
number your Twin just gave you. This is also a variable number
and will change from game to game. Then open the door, and go
into the Shaft Bottom. Get the rope. Make sure that you have
nothing with you now but that rope. If you have anything else,
drop it.  Climb up to the Shaft Top. Go Southwest into the mine.
A timber is here (doesn't that bring back fond memories of
Zork?). Tie the rope to the timber, then continue on Northwest
and West. You are now at the top of the Upper Chute. Put the beam
across the chute, then drop the rope down the chute. Finally,
climb down the rope, and you will be in the Slanted Room.  There
is a scroll here, and also an opened lantern. Get the scroll, and
Golmac yourself back in time. Now open the lantern, and get the
Vardik spell. Time is running short, so go East down the chute
into the Coal Bin room, where you will see....your Younger Self! 
Now, most important: you must do as your twin did before! Tell
your Twin the combination to the Dial Room door. Now your Twin
will give you the spell book, just as you did earlier (really one
of the neater parts of this game!). As soon as you have the book,
go down the Lower Chute to the Lagoon.  Ah, air again! Take a
deep breath, then sleep awhile, because you're probbaly tired
again. Now learn Meef twice, Swanzo, once drop the spellbook, and
go East into the Lagoon. Dive down to the bottom, and Meef the
Spenseweeds, revealing a crate. Get the crate and return to
shore.  Drop and open the crate. Inside, among other things, is a
can of grue repellant. Get that, and walk Northeast along the
Ocean Shore and North to the Mouth of the River. There is a cave
to the West, it's entrance covered by nasty-looking vines. Meef
the vines, and Vardik yourself.  Now, spray the repellant on
yourself and enter the cave. Wow! Grues are everwhere, and they
don't fear the light!! Fortunately though, the repellant still
works. However, I wouldn't advise staying around! So, move along
West and you will come to three doors. Two of them lead to VERY
unpleasant circumstances. You don't want those, so open the white
door.  Inside the room is Belboz, who is possessed by the demon
Jeear. Swanzo Belboz, and the demon will leave him, and attempt
to enter YOUR mind! But the Vardik spell will keep him out, and,
with no host available, he will vanish! Belboz will now regain
his senses, and will magic the both of you back to the Guild
Hall. Here Belboz announces his retirement, and names you as the
new head of the Circle! Congratulations, Sorcerer!
