                                 POPULOUS
                                ==========


                            GENERAL STRATEGIES
                           --------------------


                                 Building
                                ----------

Double Click on the same point and then remove the top point, allowing you
to create an area of nine flat blocks in only three clicks.



                         Now You Can Turf Or Sprog
                        ---------------------------

Reduce the area of crop fields that a castle has and the size of the
building will be reduced. This lowers the capacity of the building to hold
people and will force a walker to leave if it is too crowded. Use this
method to force a walker from a large castle. It is important to note that
the largest castle uses an extra block around the edge of it's crop fields.
This land cannot be used for direct settlement.



                             Land Maintenance
                            ------------------

Keep your land clean and tidy, remove swamps, rocks, broken and bad land.
Without a strong clean landscape, your population will not flourish. Remove
swamps as they are a direct drain on your population - especially
bottomless swamps.



                      How To Deal With Those Knights
                     --------------------------------

If the enemy starts to use knights against you, you have a number of
options open. Try ignoring the knight and letting it rampage through your
land and burn a few houses; but make sure that you clean up the land and
resettle behind it. Try to drown the knight - the computer opponent will
not often allow you to get away with this but with practice it can often be
achieved. The secret is to build a tough leader that can defeat the knight
in combat. It is possible to use a system of buildings to create an
artificial barrier to the knight's progress by nipling the land, letting
the knight fight through the small houses, then removing the nipples to free
some flat land to resettle.



                               Tough Leaders
                              ---------------

Collect your people in a leader and then use the leader to assault the
enemy. This is one of the most satisfying ways of playing Populous. A tough
leader can also defeat opposing leaders, knights, and can form a tough
knight for your side.



                             Papal Magnet Mode
                            -------------------

Careful use early in the game can move your leader and people away from the
homeland and into new territory fresh for expansion.



                              Walkers Have IQ
                             -----------------

IQ is determined by the technology that the walkers have and the number of
times that they have been sprogged from a settlement. The degrees of
intelligence are reflected in the walker's ability to locate new land etc.
A low IQ walker will waste valuable time circling a large castle trying to
find some fresh unsettled land, whereas the high IQ walker will spot the
land five or six squares away.



                                Technology
                               ------------

The technology which a person has directly affects the outcome of any
combat that they are involved in. The weapons factor acts as a multiplier -
and so weak people with swords are often a match for stronger club-wielding
walkers.



                                Fight Mode
                               ------------

This mode is very good for passive expansion. Your people will move towards
the enemy and will tend to settle as they go. This mode is most useful when
you are close to each other at the start of the game.



                            The Fighting Leader
                           ---------------------

You can use your leader as a direct and controllable weapon, by placing the
magnet in the building that you want to attack and then going into 'GOTO
MAGNET' mode. Your leader will charge off and attack the building,
occupying it after the combat. But move the magnet and off he charges. In
this mode you are not settling anything except the buildings that you are
fighting over, so beware of depopulating your lands or being out populated.
Your leader is constantly being supported by your walkers who are drawn to
him.



                             How To Win Games
                            ------------------

The most gratifying way of finishing games is by direct use of your leader.
A couple of tough knights certainly knock the stuffing out of weak
opponents. Aided by the leader you can quite quickly finish the opponents
off. Armageddon will draw the game to an instant conclusion, but try
swamping just before your armageddon if the score is close on population.



                            Computer Strategies
                           ---------------------

Learn the tactics and strategies that the computer uses. Look at the
options it is allowed and decide which effects it will use. If it can only
flood then build higher; if it can only quake then get ready to be shaken
about. Learn the way the computer builds and take advantage of it.





                     ADVANCED TECHNIQUES & STRATEGIES
                    ----------------------------------


                                 Nippling
                                ----------

Turf people from castles by lumping or nippling the land around them. Don't
remove the lumps and let the walkers settle amongst the smaller castles.
Do this to a larger area around your castles and then remove all the lumps.
This will have a knock on effect that should produce a number of new
castles at the edge of your land, and then you can expand out from these.
This tactic also shortens the time taken for a walker to settle after being
turfed - a vital thing to do on landscapes where the environment is
harmful.



                              Multisprogging
                             ----------------

This is similar to nippling - and is designed to create as many settlements
from one as possible. A large castle that has a reasonable population in it
will reduce and produce a walker, so as soon as that happens reduce it
again so that another walker is produced. The first walker will have
settled and also can be reduced to produce another. From one castle, four
settlements can be created. Flatten the land and you can create four castles
from one.



                               Determination
                              ---------------

The best way to win any game is to out-build the opponent. Against the
computer at higher rates this is often quite hard; however you can keep
building after the computer has altered it's priority to attacking rather
than building. You must weather the attack and continue to build as you can
- eventually you can win through.



                            Poor Man's Volcano
                           --------------------

Get someone into the enemy's land and then settle them. Scroll the map to
the furthest point from the flag of your building then raise the land,
upsetting as many of his houses as possible. This is a cheap way of
creating a volcano.



                                  Swamps
                                 --------

These are quite simply the most lethal weapon that you have. He who swamps
first swamps hardest. Swamp his leaders, his knights and his people. Swamps
will significantly reduce his population and can often keep the computer
player down while you are building.



                         The Handy Swamp Platform
                        --------------------------

To counteract the effect of the computer swamping your leader, you can
place the magnet in an area of land that is lumpy and not susceptible to
swamps. Collect your leader here and then release knights into his land.
The computer will try to swamp and have no effect, thus wasting manna.



                               Building High
                              ---------------

If the computer has flood and a few other options, it is a good tactic to
build at two or three levels high. You can simply ignore the flood and let
it affect only it's own people.



                              Double Volcano
                             ----------------

If you build a volcano, try to do it on another volcano, either two
together or on the side of another. Two volcanos together have more effect
than two  separate. A double volcano is very time and manna consuming to
remove.



                                  Charge
                                 --------

Getting your buildings amongst the opponents gives you the chance to drown
people, upset buildings and generally start attacking where it hurts - his
home. You will also have the advantage of being safer from swamps and other
effects. The computer will start to clean up the land which your people are
settling.



                                    Zen
                                   -----

Try building lots of settlements without bothering about turning them into
castles. This give you a larger number of walkers, but they are weaker than
the castle-sprogged walkers. Zen allows you to ignore the special effects
and concentrate on spreading and leading your people with your leader.
Building through the hills tends to stop enemy knights, since they spend
all their time destroying small and rather worthless huts and tents rather
than important houses and castles. This is called the Sproggy Mountain
Tactic, and you should also build your castles at the back of the land with
this buffer of tiny settlements before it.



                            Expansionist Policy
                           ---------------------

Learn the patterns of crop fields which are required by the various
buildings. Learn the fastest building techniques and learn how to
multisprogg and nipple. Then keep your land clean and build.  Build some
more, you can win some very tough games this way. Keep doing this until you
have out populated the opponent and have enough energy to armageddon. Do so
and win!



                           The Louisianna Tactic
                          -----------------------

If it moves swamp it, if it doesn't move swamp it anyway.





                          TWO PLAYER GAME TACTICS
                         -------------------------


                               Drown People
                              --------------

In the two player game the other player is less likely to notice the
drowning people. If water is harmful then leave the people drowning in
puddles, you will find that people die very quickly in water!!!



                        How To Swamp Off Peak Areas
                       -----------------------------

Swamp an area that is at the back or in an out-of-the-way place, and the
other player will take longer to find it and may not remove it as quickly.
This will allow more people to fall to their deaths. Swamping after the
other player has just swamped causes confusion (and if possible also
earthquake well away from your swamp). The result will be that it looks
like your retaliation was like a quake - and that the nasty sounds are
your people drowning in their own swamps. Don't forget to tidy up after you
with reference to these.
_______________________________________________________________________________
