
Hugo 3.1.02 for the Amiga
-------------------------

This is an Amiga port of the compiler (hc), the debugger (hd) and the player
(he or "Hugo Engine") for the Hugo text adventure authoring system. Please
send comments or queries about this Amiga port to the email address below.
Note that these programs may require more than the standard stack (the stack
for the Hugo engine is set in its icon to 32768, and I would recommend
at least as much for the compiler and debugger). Note that graphics and
sound samples are not currently supported by this port of Hugo.

This Amiga port supports playing MOD, XM and S3M modules, but not samples
or videos. The source code for the MOD player used was taken from
Jarno Paananen's player program PS3M.

Graphics are also supported, though only on Amigas with a CyberGraphX
compatible graphics card. For graphics, the WINDOW tooltype must be used
(see below), and the display must be set to more than 256 colours. The file
"jpeg.library" (included) must be somewhere in the LIBS: directory path.

The following Workbench tooltypes are supported by the engine and the
debugger:

    DIR		This sets the initial directory for the file requester
		which opens when the Hugo Engine is started from
		Workbench, e.g.

			DIR=Work:Games/HugoGames

    PROPFONT	These two tooltypes determine which proportional and
    FIXEDFONT	fixed-width fonts Hugo should use, e.g.

			PROPFONT=times/15

		If either are omitted then topaz/8 are used in place
		of the omitted font. Both fonts must have the same
		height, else topaz/8 will be used. Proportional fonts
		are only supported for games compiled with Hugo 2.2 or
		newer. When started from the Shell these tooltypes
		will be processed if an icon is found.

    WINDOW      Causes the Hugo Engine to open on the Workbench screen,
                rather than a custom screen of its own.

    NOGRAPHICS  Disables graphics and pictures.

    NOMUSIC     Disables playing of music modules.

David Kinder
d.kinder@btinternet.com