  Save you game frequently. Don't just overwite an existing save, either:
  give each save a different name to keep your options open.
  In the early part of the game it pays to practice to improve any of your
  abilities such as climbing (climb rocks, tree, walls...) anything to get
  your points higher.
  Practice throwing rocks at anything, but if you have bought some daggers
  from the shop use the target south of the town for practice so that you
  can get them back!
  To improve your fighting skills, Goblins can always be found in their
  camp and are not too difficult to kill.  Each time you enter their camp
  you will be attacked by one more Goblin than on your previous visit.
  Goblin-killing can also be quite profitable, because searching a body
  usually results in finding some silver.
  Staying alive is helped considerably if you can afford to buy Healing
  Potions and Vigor Potions from the Healer.  You can buy them from Zara
  in the town, but they are more expensive.
  *** Making Money
  Fairly easy ways of getting money early in the adventure include
  collecting Magic Mushrooms from the Fairy Ring and collecting flowers
  from Erana's Peace to sell to the Healer.  She will buy three lots of
  these, so PICK three times to save on journeys.
  You can earn five silvers for cleaning out the stables in the Castle,
  BUT be careful not to start too late in the afternoon.  If it is sunset
  before you get back into town you could be in trouble.
  *** Sleep Safe
  In town there's no problem if you can afford to pay the Inn-keeper for
  a bed, but outside town there are only three safe places to get your
  essential kip.  Erana's Peace is safe and you also get all your Health,
  Vigor, Magic Points, etc renewed.  By the Dryad's tree is safe, if you
  can get to it.
  Finally the hermit 'Enry will put you up for a price of 1 Food, though
  unless you can climb you won't be able to get up to his cave.
  *** Thief's Guild
  Contrary to what Bruno by the town gate may tell you, find the Thief's
  Guild by going up to the Goon in the Tavern and saying "Schweinhund".
  In the Guild you can 'fence' any property you have stolen after picking
  the locks to the Sheriff's house and the Old Lady's House.
  *** Help With The Quests
  If you can climb, or if you have Magic with the Fetch spell, you can
  find the Gold Ring lost by the Healer in the nest in the tree outside
  her house.
  When you have built up your abilities and can defeat the Ogre, enter
  the cave of the Bear. He will let you pass if you give him food.  You
  can then enter the cave of the kobold.  He is very difficult to kill,
  but if you throw about 80 rocks at him you will succeed.  Remember,
  before you enter the Bear's cave PICK UP ROCKS.  Repeat this until you
  can carry no more.
  You will almost certainly run out of rocks during your fight, but just
  come out again and get some more before returning to THROW ROCK AT
  KOBOLD.  When he dies, pick up the key that he had been wearing, then
  SEARCH THE CAVE.  You will find a chest that contains money.  Return to
  the Bear and use the kobold's key on a manacle on the Bear's leg.  Stand
  by for a surprise!
  Another quest which requires great fighting ability before attempting
  starts with a visit to the Dryad.  After getting a Spirea seed for the
  Dryad, you are given a list of ingredients to obtain and take to the
  Healer. She will then make a Dispel Potion for you.
  You must then go to the valley where the Archers are.  Run to the logs
  and jump over.  You then fight a series of Brigands with no chance to
  pause and restore your health by drinking any potions, so you must be
  fit before entering the valley.  When you defeat the Brigands you come
  to a gate guarded by a Minotaur.  Kill him, search him and kick the gate
  open.
  You now enter the barracks. Go left round the blockades, then go across
  the right-hand plank over the chasm.  Step over the trip-wire between
  the barriers at the back of the room.  This takes you to the Brigands'
  meeting room.
  LOCK THE DOOR and go to the top right and GET CHAIR. As soon as the
  chair is in place, MOVE CANDELABRA.  Three Brigands will now be behind
  the table, so move in front of the table opposite the right-hand
  chair.
  Wait - the Brigands will now retrace their steps, and when the first of
  them comes to the left-hand end of the table type CLIMB ON TABLE USE
  ROPE.  After the action, don't hang about!
  Open the door at the back of the room and go out.  This will take you to
  a very strange room (ME's room) which you will eventually have to leave
  via the left-hand door on the end wall
  It's a lot of fun, but I suggest you save on entering and during this
  room.  The next room is the Brigand Leader's room.  THROW DISPEL POTION
  on the Leader and stand by for another surprise!
  Another quest can be completed from this point if you have already
  opened the gate to Baba Yaga's hut.  Take the healing potions from the
  Leader's desk and also the Mirror. Go to the hut and when Baba Yaga
  enters, HOLD UP MIRROR.  Exit Baba Yaga!
  The gate to Baba Yaga's hut is opened by the Skull in return for the
  Glowing Gem - I hope you haven't sold it - which in turn you get from
  the Frost Giant for a price of about 70 apples, which you get from
  the shop.
