                                  [Image]

                             Stoneship Age Help

                                  [Image]

             THIS IS A WALKTHROUGH-YOU WILL GET DIRECT ANSWERS

Stupid key tricks

Go out to the little pump island. There will be three buttons to click.
Touch the one on the right. you will hear an engine type noise that is the
water being drained out of the lighthouse. Go to this very same lighthouse.
There is a small door above your head when you are just standing in the
main room. You will see a key on the floor. It is on a chain that moves. At
this point, you ask yourself "huh?". If you turn around and look down, you
will see a set a stairs to go down. The chest down there is locked, BUT you
will see a drain of some sort on left hand side of the bottom of the chest.
When you turn it, water comes out. Drain the water, then turn the handle
the other way to close the valve. For you young Sherlock Holmes', you now
realize that a hollow, wood chest will float! Leave and go back to the pump
selector area. Touch again on the third or right most button. Return to the
now flodded lighthouse. You can se the key on the floor to open the chest,
and take out the key from inside of the chest. This key opens the small
door above your head!

Turning the power on and getting to the first bedroom!

Go up and look around. There is a generator with a crank handle. Turn it
until the indicator tells you that the batteries are fully charged. Go back
and choose the second or middle button at the pump place. Go back to the
boat, and turn left. If you go forward six times, you will see an small
panel on the left wall. This one way to get to a "secret" room. Don't go
there yet! Keep going down the stairs. At the door, press the button and go
in. This is a bedroom. To the right is a desk. (You can open the drawer if
you want-you'll see a curious looking needle). Left is a chest with
drawers. There are things in some of the drawers. We are looking for drawer
number four-it has the RED PAGE! Go back out of the room and go up the
stairs.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Getting stuff from the other Bedroom

Go to your left and go down the stairs six times or clicks. Here there is a
small panel located on the wall to the right. This is another way into the
secret room. Go down the stairs all the way, open the door, and go inside
the bedroom. To your left on the bed is the BLUE NOTE! If you turn around,
you will see a chest full of drawers. Open number six, it has half of the
VAULT NOTE! Write down its contents. Turn around, go out and up the stairs.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Using the Telescope and going back to MYST

Find the telescope at the top and look into it. If you point and click on
the picture, you can move it. Click and drag to the left. There are degree
indicators. The three degree's without a picture of the Island are 115,
135, and 180. This will come in handy! If you haven't had to do so yet, you
may want to consider going back to the generator and getting a fresh
recharge for the batteries. Go back to the first door (cave-like) we
entered on the boat and go down 6 times or clicks. Remember the secret
panel to your left? Go into it. Walk down the hallway until the open room.
If you look down, you will recognize the rose drawing we saw in the
compass. The 135 degree marking we saw in the compass correlates to this
compass on the floor. Push the arrow button between South and East (135
degrees!). The lights will come on! Ahead of you is a lamp underwater. Cool
picture. Get all the way out and go to the pump buttons. Push the first
(left) button, and go back to the cabin door. Go down all of the stairs. At
this point, you will see a table in front of you. If you click on it, the
MYST book morphs out of the table. Open the book and go back home!
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
      [MYST Island] [Channelwood] [Selentic] [Mechanical] [Finishing]
                      Back to MYST Journal! Feedback
