  Welcome to China Tiles, the first major production by Stephen Hughes. All programming, graphics and design by Stephen Hughes, playtesting by Paul Willis. Instructions:- (Can also be accessed by pressing HELP
during the game). The object of this game is simply to remove all 120 tiles on the board. There are 4 different levels to the board, each shown in a different color to aid identification. Green is top, followed by Orange, Yellow
and Pink. The tiles are removed by clicking on two with identical symbols on them (Tile color doesn't matter). However, tiles can only be removed if there is a free space to either the left or right side.
If the tile you pick is accessible, then a similar tile appears on the bar at the bottom. If you click on the wrong tile, or change your mind, simply click on another tile, and this will become the 'active' tile.
If you get stuck, try clicking on 'FIND'. This scans all possible tiles and removes the first pair it comes across.
If you get completely stuck on a level, click on 'QUIT' to return to the intro screen. To quit from the intro screen, click the right mouse button
anywhere on the top line of the screen.
 Greetings go to Willy, Gav, Randy, Hutchy, Andy, Baz, Albert and Everyone else I know in but have forgotten (or couldn't be bothered) to mention,
 Including everyone I know from Durham Sixth Form Centre, and everyone in 1st year Elec. Eng. at Liverpool University.   I feel a meaningless and utterly boring scroller coming on.....
 For all you tech freaks out there, this program was written on a 1Mb 1.3 A500, with extensions and AGA fixes done on a vanilla A1200. It was written using AMOS v1.36, which is so full of bugs that the program is twice as long
as it needs to be to get around all the problems and bugs in AMOS. Version 2 (And any subsequent bug fixes will almost certainly be written in AMOS Pro. Inspiration for this game came from all those other Mahjong games for the
amiga that are either difficult to play, or are lacking in a certain feature. This program has all the best features of all the games I could find, along with a few ideas of my own. Version 2 will have even more features,
 including a 2 player link, new game types (i.e. not just matching pairs), more undo and game save features, better online help and any other features I can think of (Hopefully including music if I can find a musician willing to
 write me a suitable tune or tunes. If any one can think of any features they would link to see included, contact me at the address given in the documentation, or until June 1997, E-Mail me at ee0u4056@Liverpool.ac.uk.
 I would be very interested to hear of any compatibility problems or bugs you may find.                                                                                                      |